I don't know why, but I'm continually amazed to think that two and a half billion of us around the world are connected to each other through the Internet and that at any point in time more than 30 percent of the world's population can go online to learn, to create and to share.
And the amount of time each of us is spending doing all of this is also continuing to go grow.
A recent study showed that the young generation alone is spending over eight hours a day online.
As the parent of a nine-year-old girl, that number seems awfully low.
But just as the Internet has opened up the world for each and every one of us, it has also opened up each and every one of us to the world.
And increasingly, the price we're being asked to pay for all of this connectedness is our privacy.
Today, what many of us would love to believe is that the Internet is a private place; it's not.
And with every click of the mouse and every touch of the screen, we are like Hansel and Gretel leaving breadcrumbs of our personal information everywhere we travel through the digital woods.
We are leaving our birthdays, our places of residence, our interests and preferences, our relationships, our financial histories, and on and on it goes.
Now don't get me wrong, I'm not for one minute suggesting that sharing data is a bad thing.
In fact, when I know the data that's being shared and I'm asked explicitly for my consent, I want some sites to understand my habits.
It helps them suggest books for me to read or movies for my family to watch or friends for us to connect with.
But when I don't know and when I haven't been asked, that's when the problem arises.
It's a phenomenon on the Internet today called behavioral tracking, and it is very big business.
In fact, there's an entire industry formed around following us through the digital woods and compiling a profile on each of us.
And when all of that data is held, they can do almost whatever they want with it.
This is an area today that has very few regulations and even fewer rules.
Except for some of the recent announcements here in the United States and in Europe, it's an area of consumer protection that's almost entirely naked.
So let me expose this lurking industry a little bit further.
The visualization you see forming behind me is called Collusion and it's an experimental browser add-on that you can install in your Firefox browser that helps you see where your Web data is going and who's tracking you.
The red dots you see up there are sites that are behavioral tracking that I have not navigated to, but are following me.
The blue dots are the sites that I've actually navigated directly to.
And the gray dots are sites that are also tracking me, but I have no idea who they are.
All of them are connected, as you can see, to form a picture of me on the Web.
And this is my profile.
So let me go from an example to something very specific and personal.
I installed Collusion in my own laptop two weeks ago and I let it follow me around for what was a pretty typical day.
Now like most of you, I actually start my day going online and checking email.
I then go to a news site, look for some headlines.
And in this particular case I happened to like one of them on the merits of music literacy in schools and I shared it over a social network.
Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
Now let me stop here.
We are not even two bites into breakfast and there are already nearly 25 sites that are tracking me.
I have navigated to a total of four.
So let me fast-forward through the rest of my day.
I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
The red dots have exploded.
The gray dots have grown exponentially.
All in all, there's over 150 sites that are now tracking my personal information, most all of them without my consent.
I look at this picture and it freaks me out.
This is nothing.
I am being stalked across the Web.
And why is this happening?
Pretty simple -- it's huge business.
The revenue of the top handful of companies in this space is over 39 billion dollars today.
And as adults, we're certainly not alone.
At the same time I installed my own Collusion profile, I installed one for my daughter.
And on one single Saturday morning, over two hours on the Internet, here's her Collusion profile.
This is a nine-year-old girl navigating to principally children's sites.
I move from this, from freaked out to enraged.
This is no longer me being a tech pioneer or a privacy advocate; this is me being a parent.
Imagine in the physical world if somebody followed our children around with a camera and a notebook and recorded their every movement.
I can tell you, there isn't a person in this room that would sit idly by.
We'd take action.
It may not be good action, but we would take action.
We can't sit idly by here either.
This is happening today.
Privacy is not an option, and it shouldn't be the price we accept for just getting on the Internet.
Our voices matter and our actions matter even more.
Today we've launched Collusion.
You can download it, install it in Firefox, to see who is tracking you across the Web and following you through the digital woods.
Going forward, all of our voices need to be heard.
Because what we don't know can actually hurt us.
Because the memory of the Internet is forever.
We are being watched.
It's now time for us to watch the watchers.
Thank you.
We conventionally divide space into private and public realms, and we know these legal distinctions very well because we've become experts at protecting our private property and private space.
But we're less attuned to the nuances of the public.
What translates generic public space into qualitative space?
I mean, this is something that our studio has been working on for the past decade.
And we're doing this through some case studies.
A large chunk of our work has been put into transforming this neglected industrial ruin into a viable post-industrial space that looks forward and backward at the same time.
And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
We've been working on democratizing Lincoln Center for a public that doesn't usually have $300 to spend on an opera ticket.
So we've been eating, drinking, thinking, living public space for quite a long time.
And it's taught us really one thing, and that is to truly make good public space, you have to erase the distinctions between architecture, urbanism, landscape, media design and so on.
It really goes beyond distinction.
Now we're moving onto Washington, D.C.
and we're working on another transformation, and that is for the existing Hirshhorn Museum that's sited on the most revered public space in America, the National Mall.
The Mall is a symbol of American democracy.
And what's fantastic is that this symbol is not a thing, it's not an image, it's not an artifact, actually it's a space, and it's kind of just defined by a line of buildings on either side.
It's a space where citizens can voice their discontent and show their power.
It's a place where pivotal moments in American history have taken place.
And they're inscribed in there forever -- like the march on Washington for jobs and freedom and the great speech that Martin Luther King gave there.
The Vietnam protests, the commemoration of all that died in the pandemic of AIDS, the march for women's reproductive rights, right up until almost the present.
The Mall is the greatest civic stage in this country for dissent.
And it's synonymous with free speech, even if you're not sure what it is that you have to say.
It may just be a place for civic commiseration.
There is a huge disconnect, we believe, between the communicative and discursive space of the Mall and the museums that line it to either side.
And that is that those museums are usually passive, they have passive relationships between the museum as the presenter and the audience, as the receiver of information.
And so you can see dinosaurs and insects and collections of locomotives and all of that, but you're really not involved; you're being talked to.
When Richard Koshalek took over as director of the Hirshhorn in 2009, he was determined to take advantage of the fact that this museum was sited at the most unique place: at the seat of power in the U.S.
And while art and politics are inherently and implicitly together always and all the time, there could be some very special relationship that could be forged here in its uniqueness.
The question is, is it possible ultimately for art to insert itself into the dialogue of national and world affairs?
And could the museum be an agent of cultural diplomacy?
There are over 180 embassies in Washington D.C.
There are over 500 think tanks.
There should be a way of harnessing all of that intellectual and global energy into, and somehow through, the museum.
There should be some kind of brain trust.
So the Hirshhorn, as we began to think about it, and as we evolved the mission, with Richard and his team -- it's really his life blood.
But beyond exhibiting contemporary art, the Hirshhorn will become a public forum, a place of discourse for issues around arts, culture, politics and policy.
It would have the global reach of the World Economic Forum.
It would have the interdisciplinarity of the TED Conference.
It would have the informality of the town square.
And for this new initiative, the Hirshhorn would have to expand or appropriate a site for a contemporary, deployable structure.
This is it.
This is the Hirshhorn -- so a 230-foot-diameter concrete doughnut designed in the early '70s by Gordon Bunshaft.
It's hulking, it's silent, it's cloistered, it's arrogant, it's a design challenge.
Architects love to hate it.
One redeeming feature is it's lifted up off the ground and it's got this void, and it's got an empty core kind of in the spirit and that facade very much corporate and federal style.
And around that space, the ring is actually galleries.
Very, very difficult to mount shows in there.
When the Hirshhorn opened, Ada Louise Huxstable, the New York Times critic, had some choice words: "Neo-penitentiary modern." "A maimed monument and a maimed Mall for a maimed collection." Almost four decades later, how will this building expand for a new progressive program?
Where would it go?
It can't go in the Mall.
There is no space there.
It can't go in the courtyard.
It's already taken up by landscape and by sculptures.
Well there's always the hole.
But how could it take the space of that hole and not be buried in it invisibly?
How could it become iconic?
And what language would it take?
The Hirshhorn sits among the Mall's momumental institutions.
Most are neoclassical, heavy and opaque, made of stone or concrete.
And the question is, if one inhabits that space, what is the material of the Mall?
It has to be different from the buildings there.
It has to be something entirely different.
It has to be air.
In our imagination, it has to be light.
It has to be ephemeral.
It has to be formless.
And it has to be free.
So this is the big idea.
It's a giant airbag.
The expansion takes the shape of its container and it oozes out wherever it can -- the top and sides.
But more poetically, we like to think of the structure as inhaling the democratic air of the Mall, bringing it into itself.
The before and the after.
It was dubbed "the bubble" by the press.
That was the lounge.
It's basically one big volume of air that just oozes out in every direction.
The membrane is translucent.
It's made of silcon-coated glass fiber.
And it's inflated twice a year for one month at a time.
This is the view from the inside.
So you might have been wondering how in the world did we get this approved by the federal government.
It had to be approved by actually two agencies.
And one is there to preserve the dignity and sanctity of the Mall.
I blush whenever I show this.
It is yours to interpret.
But one thing I can say is that it's a combination of iconoclasm and adoration.
There was also some creative interpretation involved.
The Congressional Buildings Act of 1910 limits the height of buildings in D.C.
to 130 feet, except for spires, towers, domes and minarettes.
This pretty much exempts monuments of the church and state.
And the bubble is 153 ft.
That's the Pantheon next to it.
It's about 1.2 million cubic feet of compressed air.
And so we argued it on the merits of being a dome.
So there it is, very stately, among all the stately buildings in the Mall.
And while this Hirshhorn is not landmarked, it's very, very historically sensitive.
And so we couldn't really touch its surfaces.
We couldn't leave any traces behind.
So we strained it from the edges, and we held it by cables.
It's a study of some bondage techniques, which are actually very, very important because it's hit by wind all the time.
There's one permanent steel ring at the top, but it can't be seen from any vantage point on the Mall.
There are also some restrictions about how much it could be lit.
It glows from within, it's translucent.
But it can't be more lit than the Capitol or some of the monuments.
So it's down the hierarchy on lighting.
So it comes to the site twice a year.
It's taken off the delivery truck.
It's hoisted.
And then it's inflated with this low-pressure air.
And then it's restrained with the cables.
And then it's ballasted with water at the very bottom.
This is a very strange moment where we were asked by the bureaucracy at the Mall how much time would it take to install.
And we said, well the first erection would take one week.
And they really connected with that idea.
And then it was really easy all the way through.
So we didn't really have that many hurdles, I have to say, with the government and all the authorities.
But some of the toughest hurdles have been the technical ones.
This is the warp and weft.
This is a point cloud.
There are extreme pressures.
This is a very, very unusual building in that there's no gravity load, but there's load in every direction.
And I'm just going to zip through these slides.
And this is the space in action.
So flexible interior for discussions, just like this, but in the round -- luminous and reconfigurable.
Could be used for anything, for performances, films, for installations.
And the very first program will be one of cultural dialogue and diplomacy organized in partnership with the Council on Foreign Relations.
Form and content are together here.
The bubble is an anti-monument.
The ideals of participatory democracy are represented through suppleness rather than rigidity.
Art and politics occupy an ambiguous site outside the museum walls, but inside of the museum's core, blending its air with the democratic air of the Mall.
And the bubble will inflate hopefully for the first time at the end of 2013.
Thank you.
So I want to talk today about money and happiness, which are two things that a lot of us spend a lot of our time thinking about, either trying to earn them or trying to increase them.
And a lot of us resonate with this phrase.
So we see it in religions and self-help books, that money can't buy happiness.
And I want to suggest today that, in fact, that's wrong.
I'm at a business school, so that's what we do.
So that's wrong, and, in fact, if you think that, you're actually just not spending it right.
So that instead of spending it the way you usually spend it, maybe if you spent it differently, that might work a little bit better.
And before I tell you the ways that you can spend it that will make you happier, let's think about the ways we usually spend it that don't, in fact, make us happier.
We had a little natural experiment.
So CNN, a little while ago, wrote this interesting article on what happens to people when they win the lottery.
It turns out people think when they win the lottery their lives are going to be amazing.
This article's about how their lives get ruined.
So what happens when people win the lottery is, number one, they spend all the money and go into debt, and number two, all of their friends and everyone they've ever met find them and bug them for money.
And it ruins their social relationships, in fact.
So they have more debt and worse friendships than they had before they won the lottery.
What was interesting about the article was people started commenting on the article, readers of the thing.
And instead of talking about how it had made them realize that money doesn't lead to happiness, everyone instantly started saying, "You know what I would do if I won the lottery ...
?" and fantasizing about what they'd do.
And here's just two of the ones we saw that are just really interesting to think about.
One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
Anyone begging for money or trying to extort from me would receive a copy of the picture and nothing else." And so many of the comments were exactly of this type, where people got money and, in fact, it made them antisocial.
So I told you that it ruins people's lives and that their friends bug them.
It also, money often makes us feel very selfish and we do things only for ourselves.
Well maybe the reason that money doesn't make us happy is that we're always spending it on the wrong things, and in particular, that we're always spending it on ourselves.
And we thought, I wonder what would happen if we made people spend more of their money on other people.
So instead of being antisocial with your money, what if you were a little more prosocial with your money?
And we thought, let's make people do it and see what happens.
So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
So the first way that we did this.
On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
And one of the envelopes had things in it that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on yourself." So we gave some examples of what you could spend it on.
Other people, in the morning, got a slip of paper that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on somebody else." Also inside the envelope was money.
And we manipulated how much money we gave them.
So some people got this slip of paper and five dollars.
Some people got this slip of paper and 20 dollars.
We let them go about their day.
They did whatever they wanted to do.
We found out that they did in fact spend it in the way that we asked them to.
We called them up at night and asked them, "What'd you spend it on, and how happy do you feel now?" What did they spend it on?
Well these are college undergrads, so a lot of what they spent it on for themselves were things like earrings and makeup.
One woman said she bought a stuffed animal for her niece.
People gave money to homeless people.
Huge effect here of Starbucks.
So if you give undergraduates five dollars, it looks like coffee to them and they run over to Starbucks and spend it as fast as they can.
But some people bought a coffee for themselves, the way they usually would, but other people said that they bought a coffee for somebody else.
So the very same purchase, just targeted toward yourself or targeted toward somebody else.
What did we find when we called them back at the end of the day?
People who spent money on other people got happier.
People who spent money on themselves, nothing happened.
It didn't make them less happy, it just didn't do much for them.
And the other thing we saw is the amount of money doesn't matter that much.
So people thought that 20 dollars would be way better than five dollars.
In fact, it doesn't matter how much money you spent.
What really matters is that you spent it on somebody else rather than on yourself.
We see this again and again when we give people money to spend on other people instead of on themselves.
Of course, these are undergraduates in Canada -- not the world's most representative population.
They're also fairly wealthy and affluent and all these other sorts of things.
We wanted to see if this holds true everywhere in the world or just among wealthy countries.
So we went, in fact, to Uganda and ran a very similar experiment.
So imagine, instead of just people in Canada, we said, "Name the last time you spent money on yourself or other people.
Describe it.
How happy did it make you?" Or in Uganda, "Name the last time you spent money on yourself or other people and describe that." And then we asked them how happy they are again.
And what we see is sort of amazing because there's human universals on what you do with your money and then real cultural differences on what you do as well.
So for example, one guy from Uganda says this.
He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
Here's a guy from Canada.
Very similar thing.
"I took my girlfriend out for dinner.
We went to a movie, we left early, and then went back to her room for ...
" only cake -- just a piece of cake.
Human universal -- so you spend money on other people, you're being nice to them.
Maybe you have something in mind, maybe not.
But then we see extraordinary differences.
So look at these two.
This is a woman from Canada.
We say, "Name a time you spent money on somebody else." She says, "I bought a present for my mom.
I drove to the mall in my car, bought a present, gave it to my mom." Perfectly nice thing to do.
It's good to get gifts for people that you know.
Compare that to this woman from Uganda.
"I was walking and met a long-time friend whose son was sick with malaria.
They had no money, they went to a clinic and I gave her this money." This isn't $10,000, it's the local currency.
So it's a very small amount of money, in fact.
But enormously different motivations here.
This is a real medical need, literally a life-saving donation.
Above, it's just kind of, I bought a gift for my mother.
What we see again though is that the specific way that you spend on other people isn't nearly as important as the fact that you spend on other people in order to make yourself happy, which is really quite important.
So you don't have to do amazing things with your money to make yourself happy.
You can do small, trivial things and yet still get these benefits from doing this.
These are only two countries.
We also wanted to go even broader and look at every country in the world if we could to see what the relationship is between money and happiness.
We got data from the Gallup Organization, which you know from all the political polls that have been happening lately.
They ask people, "Did you donate money to charity recently?" and they ask them, "How happy are you with your life in general?" And we can see what the relationship is between those two things.
Are they positively correlated?
Giving money makes you happy.
Or are they negatively correlated?
On this map, green will mean they're positively correlated and red means they're negatively correlated.
And you can see, the world is crazily green.
So in almost every country in the world where we have this data, people who give money to charity are happier people that people who don't give money to charity.
I know you're all looking at that red country in the middle.
I would be a jerk and not tell you what it is, but in fact, it's Central African Republic.
You can make up stories.
Maybe it's different there for some reason or another.
Just below that to the right is Rwanda though, which is amazingly green.
So almost everywhere we look we see that giving money away makes you happier than keeping it for yourself.
What about your work life, which is where we spend all the rest of our time when we're not with the people we know.
We decided to infiltrate some companies and do a very similar thing.
So these are sales teams in Belgium.
They work in teams; they go out and sell to doctors and try to get them to buy drugs.
So we can look and see how well they sell things as a function of being a member of a team.
Some teams, we give people on the team some money for themselves and say, "Spend it however you want on yourself," just like we did with the undergrads in Canada.
But other teams we say, "Here's 15 euro.
Spend it on one of your teammates this week.
Buy them something as a gift or a present and give it to them.
And then we can see, well now we've got teams that spend on themselves and we've got these prosocial teams who we give money to make the team a little bit better.
The reason I have a ridiculous pinata there is one of the teams pooled their money and bought a pinata, and they all got around and smashed the pinata and all the candy fell out and things like that.
A very silly, trivial thing to do, but think of the difference on a team that didn't do that at all, that got 15 euro, put it in their pocket, maybe bought themselves a coffee, or teams that had this prosocial experience where they all bonded together to buy something and do a group activity.
What we see is that, in fact, the teams that are prosocial sell more stuff than the teams that only got money for themselves.
And one way to think about it is for every 15 euro you give people for themselves, they put it in their pocket, they don't do anything different than they did before.
You don't get any money from that.
You actually lose money because it doesn't motivate them to perform any better.
But when you give them 15 euro to spend on their teammates, they do so much better on their teams that you actually get a huge win on investing this kind of money.
And I realize that you're probably thinking to yourselves, this is all fine, but there's a context that's incredibly important for public policy and I can't imagine it would work there.
And basically that if he doesn't show me that it works here, I don't believe anything he said.
And I know what you're all thinking about are dodgeball teams.
This was a huge criticism that we got to say, if you can't show it with dodgeball teams, this is all stupid.
So we went out and found these dodgeball teams and infiltrated them.
And we did the exact same thing as before.
So some teams, we give people on the team money, they spend it on themselves.
Other teams, we give them money to spend on their dodgeball teammates.
The teams that spend money on themselves are just the same winning percentages as they were before.
The teams that we give the money to spend on each other, they become different teams and, in fact, they dominate the league by the time they're done.
Across all of these different contexts -- your personal life, you work life, even silly things like intramural sports -- we see spending on other people has a bigger return for you than spending on yourself.
And so I'll just say, I think if you think money can't buy happiness you're not spending it right.
The implication is not you should buy this product instead of that product and that's the way to make yourself happier.
It's in fact, that you should stop thinking about which product to buy for yourself and try giving some of it to other people instead.
And we luckily have an opportunity for you.
DonorsChoose.org is a non-profit for mainly public school teachers in low-income schools.
They post projects, so they say, "I want to teach Huckleberry Finn to my class and we don't have the books," or "I want a microscope to teach my students science and we don't have a microscope." You and I can go on and buy it for them.
The teacher writes you a thank you note.
The kids write you a thank you note.
Sometimes they send you pictures of them using the microscope.
It's an extraordinary thing.
Go to the website and start yourself on the process of thinking, again, less about "How can I spend money on myself?" and more about "If I've got five dollars or 15 dollars, what can I do to benefit other people?" Because ultimately when you do that, you'll find that you'll benefit yourself much more.
Thank you.
A few months ago the Nobel Prize in physics was awarded to two teams of astronomers for a discovery that has been hailed as one of the most important astronomical observations ever.
And today, after briefly describing what they found, I'm going to tell you about a highly controversial framework for explaining their discovery, namely the possibility that way beyond the Earth, the Milky Way and other distant galaxies, we may find that our universe is not the only universe, but is instead part of a vast complex of universes that we call the multiverse.
Now the idea of a multiverse is a strange one.
I mean, most of us were raised to believe that the word "universe" means everything.
And I say most of us with forethought, as my four-year-old daughter has heard me speak of these ideas since she was born.
And last year I was holding her and I said, "Sophia, I love you more than anything in the universe." And she turned to me and said, "Daddy, universe or multiverse?" But barring such an anomalous upbringing, it is strange to imagine other realms separate from ours, most with fundamentally different features, that would rightly be called universes of their own.
And yet, speculative though the idea surely is, I aim to convince you that there's reason for taking it seriously, as it just might be right.
I'm going to tell the story of the multiverse in three parts.
In part one, I'm going to describe those Nobel Prize-winning results and to highlight a profound mystery which those results revealed.
In part two, I'll offer a solution to that mystery.
It's based on an approach called string theory, and that's where the idea of the multiverse will come into the story.
Finally, in part three, I'm going to describe a cosmological theory called inflation, which will pull all the pieces of the story together.
Okay, part one starts back in 1929 when the great astronomer Edwin Hubble realized that the distant galaxies were all rushing away from us, establishing that space itself is stretching, it's expanding.
Now this was revolutionary.
The prevailing wisdom was that on the largest of scales the universe was static.
But even so, there was one thing that everyone was certain of: The expansion must be slowing down.
That, much as the gravitational pull of the Earth slows the ascent of an apple tossed upward, the gravitational pull of each galaxy on every other must be slowing the expansion of space.
Now let's fast-forward to the 1990s when those two teams of astronomers I mentioned at the outset were inspired by this reasoning to measure the rate at which the expansion has been slowing.
And they did this by painstaking observations of numerous distant galaxies, allowing them to chart how the expansion rate has changed over time.
Here's the surprise: They found that the expansion is not slowing down.
Instead they found that it's speeding up, going faster and faster.
That's like tossing an apple upward and it goes up faster and faster.
Now if you saw an apple do that, you'd want to know why.
What's pushing on it?
Similarly, the astronomers' results are surely well-deserving of the Nobel Prize, but they raised an analogous question.
What force is driving all galaxies to rush away from every other at an ever-quickening speed?
Well the most promising answer comes from an old idea of Einstein's.
You see, we are all used to gravity being a force that does one thing, pulls objects together.
But in Einstein's theory of gravity, his general theory of relativity, gravity can also push things apart.
How?
Well according to Einstein's math, if space is uniformly filled with an invisible energy, sort of like a uniform, invisible mist, then the gravity generated by that mist would be repulsive, repulsive gravity, which is just what we need to explain the observations.
Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
And this explanation represents great progress.
But I promised you a mystery here in part one.
Here it is.
When the astronomers worked out how much of this dark energy must be infusing space to account for the cosmic speed up, look at what they found.
This number is small.
Expressed in the relevant unit, it is spectacularly small.
And the mystery is to explain this peculiar number.
We want this number to emerge from the laws of physics, but so far no one has found a way to do that.
Now you might wonder, should you care?
Maybe explaining this number is just a technical issue, a technical detail of interest to experts, but of no relevance to anybody else.
Well it surely is a technical detail, but some details really matter.
Some details provide windows into uncharted realms of reality, and this peculiar number may be doing just that, as the only approach that's so far made headway to explain it invokes the possibility of other universes -- an idea that naturally emerges from string theory, which takes me to part two: string theory.
So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.
First off, what is it?
Well it's an approach to realize Einstein's dream of a unified theory of physics, a single overarching framework that would be able to describe all the forces at work in the universe.
And the central idea of string theory is quite straightforward.
It says that if you examine any piece of matter ever more finely, at first you'll find molecules and then you'll find atoms and subatomic particles.
But the theory says that if you could probe smaller, much smaller than we can with existing technology, you'd find something else inside these particles -- a little tiny vibrating filament of energy, a little tiny vibrating string.
And just like the strings on a violin, they can vibrate in different patterns producing different musical notes.
These little fundamental strings, when they vibrate in different patterns, they produce different kinds of particles -- so electrons, quarks, neutrinos, photons, all other particles would be united into a single framework, as they would all arise from vibrating strings.
It's a compelling picture, a kind of cosmic symphony, where all the richness that we see in the world around us emerges from the music that these little, tiny strings can play.
But there's a cost to this elegant unification, because years of research have shown that the math of string theory doesn't quite work.
It has internal inconsistencies, unless we allow for something wholly unfamiliar -- extra dimensions of space.
That is, we all know about the usual three dimensions of space.
And you can think about those as height, width and depth.
But string theory says that, on fantastically small scales, there are additional dimensions crumpled to a tiny size so small that we have not detected them.
But even though the dimensions are hidden, they would have an impact on things that we can observe because the shape of the extra dimensions constrains how the strings can vibrate.
And in string theory, vibration determines everything.
So particle masses, the strengths of forces, and most importantly, the amount of dark energy would be determined by the shape of the extra dimensions.
So if we knew the shape of the extra dimensions, we should be able to calculate these features, calculate the amount of dark energy.
The challenge is we don't know the shape of the extra dimensions.
All we have is a list of candidate shapes allowed by the math.
Now when these ideas were first developed, there were only about five different candidate shapes, so you can imagine analyzing them one-by-one to determine if any yield the physical features we observe.
But over time the list grew as researchers found other candidate shapes.
From five, the number grew into the hundreds and then the thousands -- A large, but still manageable, collection to analyze, since after all, graduate students need something to do.
But then the list continued to grow into the millions and the billions, until today.
The list of candidate shapes has soared to about 10 to the 500.
So, what to do?
Well some researchers lost heart, concluding that was so many candidate shapes for the extra dimensions, each giving rise to different physical features, string theory would never make definitive, testable predictions.
But others turned this issue on its head, taking us to the possibility of a multiverse.
Here's the idea.
Maybe each of these shapes is on an equal footing with every other.
Each is as real as every other, in the sense that there are many universes, each with a different shape, for the extra dimensions.
And this radical proposal has a profound impact on this mystery: the amount of dark energy revealed by the Nobel Prize-winning results.
Because you see, if there are other universes, and if those universes each have, say, a different shape for the extra dimensions, then the physical features of each universe will be different, and in particular, the amount of dark energy in each universe will be different.
Which means that the mystery of explaining the amount of dark energy we've now measured would take on a wholly different character.
In this context, the laws of physics can't explain one number for the dark energy because there isn't just one number, there are many numbers.
Which means we have been asking the wrong question.
It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there?
And that's a question on which we can make headway.
Because those universes that have much more dark energy than ours, whenever matter tries to clump into galaxies, the repulsive push of the dark energy is so strong that it blows the clump apart and galaxies don't form.
And in those universes that have much less dark energy, well they collapse back on themselves so quickly that, again, galaxies don't form.
And without galaxies, there are no stars, no planets and no chance for our form of life to exist in those other universes.
So we find ourselves in a universe with the particular amount of dark energy we've measured simply because our universe has conditions hospitable to our form of life.
And that would be that.
Mystery solved, multiverse found.
Now some find this explanation unsatisfying.
We're used to physics giving us definitive explanations for the features we observe.
But the point is, if the feature you're observing can and does take on a wide variety of different values across the wider landscape of reality, then thinking one explanation for a particular value is simply misguided.
An early example comes from the great astronomer Johannes Kepler who was obsessed with understanding a different number -- why the Sun is 93 million miles away from the Earth.
And he worked for decades trying to explain this number, but he never succeeded, and we know why.
Kepler was asking the wrong question.
We now know that there are many planets at a wide variety of different distances from their host stars.
So hoping that the laws of physics will explain one particular number, 93 million miles, well that is simply wrongheaded.
Instead the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves on a planet at this particular distance, instead of any of the other possibilities?
And again, that's a question we can answer.
Those planets which are much closer to a star like the Sun would be so hot that our form of life wouldn't exist.
And those planets that are much farther away from the star, well they're so cold that, again, our form of life would not take hold.
So we find ourselves on a planet at this particular distance simply because it yields conditions vital to our form of life.
And when it comes to planets and their distances, this clearly is the right kind of reasoning.
The point is, when it comes to universes and the dark energy that they contain, it may also be the right kind of reasoning.
One key difference, of course, is we know that there are other planets out there, but so far I've only speculated on the possibility that there might be other universes.
So to pull it all together, we need a mechanism that can actually generate other universes.
And that takes me to my final part, part three.
Because such a mechanism has been found by cosmologists trying to understand the Big Bang.
You see, when we speak of the Big Bang, we often have an image of a kind of cosmic explosion that created our universe and set space rushing outward.
But there's a little secret.
The Big Bang leaves out something pretty important, the Bang.
It tells us how the universe evolved after the Bang, but gives us no insight into what would have powered the Bang itself.
And this gap was finally filled by an enhanced version of the Big Bang theory.
It's called inflationary cosmology, which identified a particular kind of fuel that would naturally generate an outward rush of space.
The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
Instead the fuel not only generated our Big Bang, but it would also generate countless other Big Bangs, each giving rise to its own separate universe with our universe becoming but one bubble in a grand cosmic bubble bath of universes.
And now, when we meld this with string theory, here's the picture we're led to.
Each of these universes has extra dimensions.
The extra dimensions take on a wide variety of different shapes.
The different shapes yield different physical features.
And we find ourselves in one universe instead of another simply because it's only in our universe that the physical features, like the amount of dark energy, are right for our form of life to take hold.
And this is the compelling but highly controversial picture of the wider cosmos that cutting-edge observation and theory have now led us to seriously consider.
One big remaining question, of course, is, could we ever confirm the existence of other universes?
Well let me describe one way that might one day happen.
The inflationary theory already has strong observational support.
Because the theory predicts that the Big Bang would have been so intense that as space rapidly expanded, tiny quantum jitters from the micro world would have been stretched out to the macro world, yielding a distinctive fingerprint, a pattern of slightly hotter spots and slightly colder spots, across space, which powerful telescopes have now observed.
Going further, if there are other universes, the theory predicts that every so often those universes can collide.
And if our universe got hit by another, that collision would generate an additional subtle pattern of temperature variations across space that we might one day be able to detect.
And so exotic as this picture is, it may one day be grounded in observations, establishing the existence of other universes.
I'll conclude with a striking implication of all these ideas for the very far future.
You see, we learned that our universe is not static, that space is expanding, that that expansion is speeding up and that there might be other universes all by carefully examining faint pinpoints of starlight coming to us from distant galaxies.
But because the expansion is speeding up, in the very far future, those galaxies will rush away so far and so fast that we won't be able to see them -- not because of technological limitations, but because of the laws of physics.
The light those galaxies emit, even traveling at the fastest speed, the speed of light, will not be able to overcome the ever-widening gulf between us.
So astronomers in the far future looking out into deep space will see nothing but an endless stretch of static, inky, black stillness.
And they will conclude that the universe is static and unchanging and populated by a single central oasis of matter that they inhabit -- a picture of the cosmos that we definitively know to be wrong.
Now maybe those future astronomers will have records handed down from an earlier era, like ours, attesting to an expanding cosmos teeming with galaxies.
But would those future astronomers believe such ancient knowledge?
Or would they believe in the black, static empty universe that their own state-of-the-art observations reveal?
I suspect the latter.
Which means that we are living through a remarkably privileged era when certain deep truths about the cosmos are still within reach of the human spirit of exploration.
It appears that it may not always be that way.
Because today's astronomers, by turning powerful telescopes to the sky, have captured a handful of starkly informative photons -- a kind of cosmic telegram billions of years in transit.
and the message echoing across the ages is clear.
Sometimes nature guards her secrets with the unbreakable grip of physical law.
Sometimes the true nature of reality beckons from just beyond the horizon.
Thank you very much.
Chris Anderson: Brian, thank you.
The range of ideas you've just spoken about are dizzying, exhilarating, incredible.
How do you think of where cosmology is now, in a sort of historical side?
Are we in the middle of something unusual historically in your opinion?
BG: Well it's hard to say.
When we learn that astronomers of the far future may not have enough information to figure things out, the natural question is, maybe we're already in that position and certain deep, critical features of the universe already have escaped our ability to understand because of how cosmology evolves.
So from that perspective, maybe we will always be asking questions and never be able to fully answer them.
On the other hand, we now can understand how old the universe is.
We can understand how to understand the data from the microwave background radiation that was set down 13.72 billion years ago -- and yet, we can do calculations today to predict how it will look and it matches.
Holy cow!
That's just amazing.
So on the one hand, it's just incredible where we've gotten, but who knows what sort of blocks we may find in the future.
CA: You're going to be around for the next few days.
Maybe some of these conversations can continue.
Thank you.
Thank you, Brian.
Have you ever wondered what is inside your dental plaque?
Probably not, but people like me do.
I'm an archeological geneticist at the Center for Evolutionary Medicine at the University of Zurich, and I study the origins and evolution of human health and disease by conducting genetic research on the skeletal and mummified remains of ancient humans.
And through this work, I hope to better understand the evolutionary vulnerabilities of our bodies, so that we can improve and better manage our health in the future.
There are different ways to approach evolutionary medicine, and one way is to extract human DNA from ancient bones.
And from these extracts, we can reconstruct the human genome at different points in time and look for changes that might be related to adaptations, risk factors and inherited diseases.
But this is only one half of the story.
The most important health challenges today are not caused by simple mutations in our genome, but rather result from a complex and dynamic interplay between genetic variation, diet, microbes and parasites and our immune response.
All of these diseases have a strong evolutionary component that directly relates to the fact that we live today in a very different environment than the ones in which our bodies evolved.
And in order to understand these diseases, we need to move past studies of the human genome alone and towards a more holistic approach to human health in the past.
But there are a lot of challenges for this.
And first of all, what do we even study?
Skeletons are ubiquitous; they're found all over the place.
But of course, all of the soft tissue has decomposed, and the skeleton itself has limited health information.
Mummies are a great source of information, except that they're really geographically limited and limited in time as well.
Coprolites are fossilized human feces, and they're actually extremely interesting.
You can learn a lot about ancient diet and intestinal disease, but they are very rare.
So to address this problem, I put together a team of international researchers in Switzerland, Denmark and the U.K.
to study a very poorly studied, little known material that's found on people everywhere.
It's a type of fossilized dental plaque that is called officially dental calculus.
Many of you may know it by the term tartar.
It's what the dentist cleans off your teeth every time that you go in for a visit.
And in a typical dentistry visit, you may have about 15 to 30 milligrams removed.
But in ancient times before tooth brushing, up to 600 milligrams might have built up on the teeth over a lifetime.
And what's really important about dental calculus is that it fossilizes just like the rest of the skeleton, it's abundant in quantity before the present day and it's ubiquitous worldwide.
We find it in every population around the world at all time periods going back tens of thousands of years.
And we even find it in neanderthals and animals.
And so previous studies had only focused on microscopy.
They'd looked at dental calculus under a microscope, and what they had found was things like pollen and plant starches, and they'd found muscle cells from animal meats and bacteria.
And so what my team of researchers, what we wanted to do, is say, can we apply genetic and proteomic technology to go after DNA and proteins, and from this can we get better taxonomic resolution to really understand what's going on?
And what we found is that we can find many commensal and pathogenic bacteria that inhabited the nasal passages and mouth.
We also have found immune proteins related to infection and inflammation and proteins and DNA related to diet.
But what was surprising to us, and also quite exciting, is we also found bacteria that normally inhabit upper respiratory systems.
So it gives us virtual access to the lungs, which is where many important diseases reside.
And we also found bacteria that normally inhabit the gut.
And so we can also now virtually gain access to this even more distant organ system that, from the skeleton alone, has long decomposed.
And so by applying ancient DNA sequencing and protein mass spectrometry technologies to ancient dental calculus, we can generate immense quantities of data that then we can use to begin to reconstruct a detailed picture of the dynamic interplay between diet, infection and immunity thousands of years ago.
So what started out as an idea, is now being implemented to churn out millions of sequences that we can use to investigate the long-term evolutionary history of human health and disease, right down to the genetic code of individual pathogens.
And from this information we can learn about how pathogens evolve and also why they continue to make us sick.
And I hope I have convinced you of the value of dental calculus.
And as a final parting thought, on behalf of future archeologists, I would like to ask you to please think twice before you go home and brush your teeth.
Thank you.
People are living longer and societies are getting grayer.
You hear about it all the time.
You read about it in your newspapers.
You hear about it on your television sets.
Sometimes I'm concerned that we hear about it so much that we've come to accept longer lives with a kind of a complacency, even ease.
But make no mistake, longer lives can and, I believe, will improve quality of life at all ages.
Now to put this in perspective, let me just zoom out for a minute.
More years were added to average life expectancy in the 20th century than all years added across all prior millennia of human evolution combined.
In the blink of an eye, we nearly doubled the length of time that we're living.
So if you ever feel like you don't have this aging thing quite pegged, don't kick yourself.
It's brand new.
And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
And now, if you're the kind of person who can get chills from population statistics, these are the ones that should do it.
Because what that means is that for the first time in the history of the species, the majority of babies born in the Developed World are having the opportunity to grow old.
How did this happen?
Well we're no genetically hardier than our ancestors were 10,000 years ago.
This increase in life expectancy is the remarkable product of culture -- the crucible that holds science and technology and wide-scale changes in behavior that improve health and well-being.
Through cultural changes, our ancestors largely eliminated early death so that people can now live out their full lives.
Now there are problems associated with aging -- diseases, poverty, loss of social status.
It's hardly time to rest on our laurels.
But the more we learn about aging, the clearer it becomes that a sweeping downward course is grossly inaccurate.
Aging brings some rather remarkable improvements -- increased knowledge, expertise -- and emotional aspects of life improve.
That's right, older people are happy.
They're happier than middle-aged people, and younger people certainly.
Study after study is coming to the same conclusion.
The CDC recently conducted a survey where they asked respondents simply to tell them whether they experienced significant psychological distress in the previous week.
And fewer older people answered affirmatively to that question than middle-aged people, and younger people as well.
And a recent Gallup poll asked participants how much stress and worry and anger they had experienced the previous day.
And stress, worry, anger all decrease with age.
Now social scientists call this the paradox of aging.
After all, aging is not a piece of cake.
So we've asked all sorts of questions to see if we could undo this finding.
We've asked whether it may be that the current generations of older people are and always have been the greatest generations.
That is that younger people today may not typically experience these improvements as they grow older.
We've asked, well maybe older people are just trying to put a positive spin on an otherwise depressing existence.
But the more we've tried to disavow this finding, the more evidence we find to support it.
Years ago, my colleagues and I embarked on a study where we followed the same group of people over a 10-year period.
Originally the sample was aged 18 to 94.
And we studied whether and how their emotional experiences changed as they grew older.
Our participants would carry electronic pagers for a week at a time, and we'd page them throughout the day and evenings at random times.
And every time we paged them we'd ask them to answer several questions -- On a one to seven scale, how happy are you right now?
How sad are you right now?
How frustrated are you right now?
-- so that we could get a sense of the kinds of emotions and feelings they were having in their day-to-day lives.
And using this intense study of individuals, we find that it's not one particular generation that's doing better than the others, but the same individuals over time come to report relatively greater positive experience.
Now you see this slight downturn at very advanced ages.
And there is a slight downturn.