be in|I don't know why, but I'm continually amazed to think that two and a half billion of us around the world are connected to each other through the Internet and that at any point in time more than 30 percent of the world's population can go online to learn, to create and to share.
do in|I don't know why, but I'm continually amazed to think that two and a half billion of us around the world are connected to each other through the Internet and that at any point in time more than 30 percent of the world's population can go online to learn, to create and to share.
go to|I don't know why, but I'm continually amazed to think that two and a half billion of us around the world are connected to each other through the Internet and that at any point in time more than 30 percent of the world's population can go online to learn, to create and to share.
think through|I don't know why, but I'm continually amazed to think that two and a half billion of us around the world are connected to each other through the Internet and that at any point in time more than 30 percent of the world's population can go online to learn, to create and to share.
show over|A recent study showed that the young generation alone is spending over eight hours a day online.
have up|But just as the Internet has opened up the world for each and every one of us, it has also opened up each and every one of us to the world.
ask for|And increasingly, the price we're being asked to pay for all of this connectedness is our privacy.
click through|And with every click of the mouse and every touch of the screen, we are like Hansel and Gretel leaving breadcrumbs of our personal information everywhere we travel through the digital woods.
be on|We are leaving our birthdays, our places of residence, our interests and preferences, our relationships, our financial histories, and on and on it goes.
leave on|We are leaving our birthdays, our places of residence, our interests and preferences, our relationships, our financial histories, and on and on it goes.
do for|Now don't get me wrong, I'm not for one minute suggesting that sharing data is a bad thing.
be on|It's a phenomenon on the Internet today called behavioral tracking, and it is very big business.
be on|In fact, there's an entire industry formed around following us through the digital woods and compiling a profile on each of us.
follow on|In fact, there's an entire industry formed around following us through the digital woods and compiling a profile on each of us.
can do with|And when all of that data is held, they can do almost whatever they want with it.
do with|And when all of that data is held, they can do almost whatever they want with it.
hold with|And when all of that data is held, they can do almost whatever they want with it.
be in|The visualization you see forming behind me is called Collusion and it's an experimental browser add-on that you can install in your Firefox browser that helps you see where your Web data is going and who's tracking you.
call in|The visualization you see forming behind me is called Collusion and it's an experimental browser add-on that you can install in your Firefox browser that helps you see where your Web data is going and who's tracking you.
see in|The visualization you see forming behind me is called Collusion and it's an experimental browser add-on that you can install in your Firefox browser that helps you see where your Web data is going and who's tracking you.
see to|The red dots you see up there are sites that are behavioral tracking that I have not navigated to, but are following me.
be on|All of them are connected, as you can see, to form a picture of me on the Web.
see to|All of them are connected, as you can see, to form a picture of me on the Web.
go to|So let me go from an example to something very specific and personal.
go for|I then go to a news site, look for some headlines.
happen on|And in this particular case I happened to like one of them on the merits of music literacy in schools and I shared it over a social network.
ask in|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
be in|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
be on|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
be on to|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
be up|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
join in|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
join up|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
look to|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
send up|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
check in|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
go at|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
go down|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
go in|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
log in|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
look in|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
share in|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
work at|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
look out|I look at this picture and it freaks me out.
move out|I move from this, from freaked out to enraged.
be in|I can tell you, there isn't a person in this room that would sit idly by.
be not on|Privacy is not an option, and it shouldn't be the price we accept for just getting on the Internet.
be on|Privacy is not an option, and it shouldn't be the price we accept for just getting on the Internet.
see through|You can download it, install it in Firefox, to see who is tracking you across the Web and following you through the digital woods.
go to|Going forward, all of our voices need to be heard.
be on|I mean, this is something that our studio has been working on for the past decade.
have on|I mean, this is something that our studio has been working on for the past decade.
look at|A large chunk of our work has been put into transforming this neglected industrial ruin into a viable post-industrial space that looks forward and backward at the same time.
put forward|A large chunk of our work has been put into transforming this neglected industrial ruin into a viable post-industrial space that looks forward and backward at the same time.
work at|A large chunk of our work has been put into transforming this neglected industrial ruin into a viable post-industrial space that looks forward and backward at the same time.
be out|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
be out of|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
go out|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
go out with|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
go with|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
make of|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
make out|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
make with|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
work out|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
be on|We've been working on democratizing Lincoln Center for a public that doesn't usually have $300 to spend on an opera ticket.
be on to|We've been working on democratizing Lincoln Center for a public that doesn't usually have $300 to spend on an opera ticket.
have on|We've been working on democratizing Lincoln Center for a public that doesn't usually have $300 to spend on an opera ticket.
be on|And it's taught us really one thing, and that is to truly make good public space, you have to erase the distinctions between architecture, urbanism, landscape, media design and so on.
have on|And it's taught us really one thing, and that is to truly make good public space, you have to erase the distinctions between architecture, urbanism, landscape, media design and so on.
make to|And it's taught us really one thing, and that is to truly make good public space, you have to erase the distinctions between architecture, urbanism, landscape, media design and so on.
be onto|Now we're moving onto Washington, D.C.
be in|and we're working on another transformation, and that is for the existing Hirshhorn Museum that's sited on the most revered public space in America, the National Mall.
be on|and we're working on another transformation, and that is for the existing Hirshhorn Museum that's sited on the most revered public space in America, the National Mall.
be not on|And what's fantastic is that this symbol is not a thing, it's not an image, it's not an artifact, actually it's a space, and it's kind of just defined by a line of buildings on either side.
be on|And what's fantastic is that this symbol is not a thing, it's not an image, it's not an artifact, actually it's a space, and it's kind of just defined by a line of buildings on either side.
be in|It's a place where pivotal moments in American history have taken place.
be in|And they're inscribed in there forever -- like the march on Washington for jobs and freedom and the great speech that Martin Luther King gave there.
be in for|And they're inscribed in there forever -- like the march on Washington for jobs and freedom and the great speech that Martin Luther King gave there.
be in on|And they're inscribed in there forever -- like the march on Washington for jobs and freedom and the great speech that Martin Luther King gave there.
be on|And they're inscribed in there forever -- like the march on Washington for jobs and freedom and the great speech that Martin Luther King gave there.
be there for|And they're inscribed in there forever -- like the march on Washington for jobs and freedom and the great speech that Martin Luther King gave there.
be up|The Vietnam protests, the commemoration of all that died in the pandemic of AIDS, the march for women's reproductive rights, right up until almost the present.
die for|The Vietnam protests, the commemoration of all that died in the pandemic of AIDS, the march for women's reproductive rights, right up until almost the present.
be in|The Mall is the greatest civic stage in this country for dissent.
be in for|The Mall is the greatest civic stage in this country for dissent.
see to|And so you can see dinosaurs and insects and collections of locomotives and all of that, but you're really not involved; you're being talked to.
be in|When Richard Koshalek took over as director of the Hirshhorn in 2009, he was determined to take advantage of the fact that this museum was sited at the most unique place: at the seat of power in the U.S.
take in|When Richard Koshalek took over as director of the Hirshhorn in 2009, he was determined to take advantage of the fact that this museum was sited at the most unique place: at the seat of power in the U.S.
take to|When Richard Koshalek took over as director of the Hirshhorn in 2009, he was determined to take advantage of the fact that this museum was sited at the most unique place: at the seat of power in the U.S.
be in|And while art and politics are inherently and implicitly together always and all the time, there could be some very special relationship that could be forged here in its uniqueness.
be in|There are over 180 embassies in Washington D.C.
become of|But beyond exhibiting contemporary art, the Hirshhorn will become a public forum, a place of discourse for issues around arts, culture, politics and policy.
be in|This is the Hirshhorn -- so a 230-foot-diameter concrete doughnut designed in the early '70s by Gordon Bunshaft.
be in|One redeeming feature is it's lifted up off the ground and it's got this void, and it's got an empty core kind of in the spirit and that facade very much corporate and federal style.
be off|One redeeming feature is it's lifted up off the ground and it's got this void, and it's got an empty core kind of in the spirit and that facade very much corporate and federal style.
be up|One redeeming feature is it's lifted up off the ground and it's got this void, and it's got an empty core kind of in the spirit and that facade very much corporate and federal style.
get in|One redeeming feature is it's lifted up off the ground and it's got this void, and it's got an empty core kind of in the spirit and that facade very much corporate and federal style.
get it|One redeeming feature is it's lifted up off the ground and it's got this void, and it's got an empty core kind of in the spirit and that facade very much corporate and federal style.
lift off|One redeeming feature is it's lifted up off the ground and it's got this void, and it's got an empty core kind of in the spirit and that facade very much corporate and federal style.
be up|It's already taken up by landscape and by sculptures.
be in|But how could it take the space of that hole and not be buried in it invisibly?
take in|But how could it take the space of that hole and not be buried in it invisibly?
take it|But how could it take the space of that hole and not be buried in it invisibly?
take it|The expansion takes the shape of its container and it oozes out wherever it can -- the top and sides.
take out|The expansion takes the shape of its container and it oozes out wherever it can -- the top and sides.
air out|It's basically one big volume of air that just oozes out in every direction.
be in|It's basically one big volume of air that just oozes out in every direction.
be out|It's basically one big volume of air that just oozes out in every direction.
be in|So you might have been wondering how in the world did we get this approved by the federal government.
get by|So you might have been wondering how in the world did we get this approved by the federal government.
have in|So you might have been wondering how in the world did we get this approved by the federal government.
be in|So there it is, very stately, among all the stately buildings in the Mall.
be on|There's one permanent steel ring at the top, but it can't be seen from any vantage point on the Mall.
be down|So it's down the hierarchy on lighting.
be down on|So it's down the hierarchy on lighting.
be on|So it's down the hierarchy on lighting.
be off|It's taken off the delivery truck.
do with|So we didn't really have that many hurdles, I have to say, with the government and all the authorities.
be in|This is a very, very unusual building in that there's no gravity load, but there's load in every direction.
take to|This is a very strange moment where we were asked by the bureaucracy at the Mall how much time would it take to install.
go through|And I'm just going to zip through these slides.
be in|And this is the space in action.
be in|And the very first program will be one of cultural dialogue and diplomacy organized in partnership with the Council on Foreign Relations.
be in on|And the very first program will be one of cultural dialogue and diplomacy organized in partnership with the Council on Foreign Relations.
be on|And the very first program will be one of cultural dialogue and diplomacy organized in partnership with the Council on Foreign Relations.
will on|And the very first program will be one of cultural dialogue and diplomacy organized in partnership with the Council on Foreign Relations.
see in|So we see it in religions and self-help books, that money can't buy happiness.
want in|And I want to suggest today that, in fact, that's wrong.
be in|So that's wrong, and, in fact, if you think that, you're actually just not spending it right.
be in|And before I tell you the ways that you can spend it that will make you happier, let's think about the ways we usually spend it that don't, in fact, make us happier.
do in|And before I tell you the ways that you can spend it that will make you happier, let's think about the ways we usually spend it that don't, in fact, make us happier.
let in|And before I tell you the ways that you can spend it that will make you happier, let's think about the ways we usually spend it that don't, in fact, make us happier.
make it|And before I tell you the ways that you can spend it that will make you happier, let's think about the ways we usually spend it that don't, in fact, make us happier.
turn to|It turns out people think when they win the lottery their lives are going to be amazing.
go for|So what happens when people win the lottery is, number one, they spend all the money and go into debt, and number two, all of their friends and everyone they've ever met find them and bug them for money.
be on|What was interesting about the article was people started commenting on the article, readers of the thing.
start on|What was interesting about the article was people started commenting on the article, readers of the thing.
make to|And instead of talking about how it had made them realize that money doesn't lead to happiness, everyone instantly started saying, "You know what I would do if I won the lottery ...
see about|And here's just two of the ones we saw that are just really interesting to think about.
see to|And here's just two of the ones we saw that are just really interesting to think about.
buy in|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
fill in|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
get in|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
go in|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
go on|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
go on with|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
go with|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
have in|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
have on|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
write in|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
be in|Anyone begging for money or trying to extort from me would receive a copy of the picture and nothing else." And so many of the comments were exactly of this type, where people got money and, in fact, it made them antisocial.
get in|Anyone begging for money or trying to extort from me would receive a copy of the picture and nothing else." And so many of the comments were exactly of this type, where people got money and, in fact, it made them antisocial.
get it|Anyone begging for money or trying to extort from me would receive a copy of the picture and nothing else." And so many of the comments were exactly of this type, where people got money and, in fact, it made them antisocial.
type in|Anyone begging for money or trying to extort from me would receive a copy of the picture and nothing else." And so many of the comments were exactly of this type, where people got money and, in fact, it made them antisocial.
do for|It also, money often makes us feel very selfish and we do things only for ourselves.
feel for|It also, money often makes us feel very selfish and we do things only for ourselves.
make for|It also, money often makes us feel very selfish and we do things only for ourselves.
be in|Well maybe the reason that money doesn't make us happy is that we're always spending it on the wrong things, and in particular, that we're always spending it on ourselves.
be in on|Well maybe the reason that money doesn't make us happy is that we're always spending it on the wrong things, and in particular, that we're always spending it on ourselves.
be on|Well maybe the reason that money doesn't make us happy is that we're always spending it on the wrong things, and in particular, that we're always spending it on ourselves.
do in|Well maybe the reason that money doesn't make us happy is that we're always spending it on the wrong things, and in particular, that we're always spending it on ourselves.
make it|Well maybe the reason that money doesn't make us happy is that we're always spending it on the wrong things, and in particular, that we're always spending it on ourselves.
happen on|And we thought, I wonder what would happen if we made people spend more of their money on other people.
make of|And we thought, I wonder what would happen if we made people spend more of their money on other people.
make it|And we thought, let's make people do it and see what happens.
be away|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
be in|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
be on|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
do in|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
give in|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
have in|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
have on|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
let in|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
let on|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
see in|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
be in|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
do in|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
go at|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
go in|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
go on|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
go on at|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
go on to|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
go out to|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
go to|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
want in|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
give of|And one of the envelopes had things in it that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on yourself." So we gave some examples of what you could spend it on.
have in|And one of the envelopes had things in it that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on yourself." So we gave some examples of what you could spend it on.
have on|And one of the envelopes had things in it that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on yourself." So we gave some examples of what you could spend it on.
get by|Other people, in the morning, got a slip of paper that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on somebody else." Also inside the envelope was money.
get by on|Other people, in the morning, got a slip of paper that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on somebody else." Also inside the envelope was money.
get on|Other people, in the morning, got a slip of paper that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on somebody else." Also inside the envelope was money.
slip by|Other people, in the morning, got a slip of paper that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on somebody else." Also inside the envelope was money.
slip on|Other people, in the morning, got a slip of paper that said, "By 5:00 pm today, spend this money on somebody else." Also inside the envelope was money.
do in|We found out that they did in fact spend it in the way that we asked them to.
call on|We called them up at night and asked them, "What'd you spend it on, and how happy do you feel now?" What did they spend it on?
be on|Well these are college undergrads, so a lot of what they spent it on for themselves were things like earrings and makeup.
give it to|So if you give undergraduates five dollars, it looks like coffee to them and they run over to Starbucks and spend it as fast as they can.
give over|So if you give undergraduates five dollars, it looks like coffee to them and they run over to Starbucks and spend it as fast as they can.
give over to|So if you give undergraduates five dollars, it looks like coffee to them and they run over to Starbucks and spend it as fast as they can.
look over|So if you give undergraduates five dollars, it looks like coffee to them and they run over to Starbucks and spend it as fast as they can.
look to|So if you give undergraduates five dollars, it looks like coffee to them and they run over to Starbucks and spend it as fast as they can.
run to|So if you give undergraduates five dollars, it looks like coffee to them and they run over to Starbucks and spend it as fast as they can.
do for|It didn't make them less happy, it just didn't do much for them.
make for|It didn't make them less happy, it just didn't do much for them.
make it|It didn't make them less happy, it just didn't do much for them.
be on|What really matters is that you spent it on somebody else rather than on yourself.
give of|We see this again and again when we give people money to spend on other people instead of on themselves.
see to|We see this again and again when we give people money to spend on other people instead of on themselves.
be in|Of course, these are undergraduates in Canada -- not the world's most representative population.
see in|We wanted to see if this holds true everywhere in the world or just among wealthy countries.
want in|We wanted to see if this holds true everywhere in the world or just among wealthy countries.
go in|So we went, in fact, to Uganda and ran a very similar experiment.
go to|So we went, in fact, to Uganda and ran a very similar experiment.
do in|How happy did it make you?" Or in Uganda, "Name the last time you spent money on yourself or other people and describe that." And then we asked them how happy they are again.
be on|And what we see is sort of amazing because there's human universals on what you do with your money and then real cultural differences on what you do as well.
do with|And what we see is sort of amazing because there's human universals on what you do with your money and then real cultural differences on what you do as well.
call on|He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
call out|He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
call up|He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
do up|He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
end up|He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
go at|He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
go on|He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
go on at|He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
go up|He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
take for|"I took my girlfriend out for dinner.
go for|We went to a movie, we left early, and then went back to her room for ...
go to|We went to a movie, we left early, and then went back to her room for ...
have in|Maybe you have something in mind, maybe not.
give it to|I drove to the mall in my car, bought a present, gave it to my mom." Perfectly nice thing to do.
meet with|"I was walking and met a long-time friend whose son was sick with malaria.
go it|They had no money, they went to a clinic and I gave her this money." This isn't $10,000, it's the local currency.
go to|They had no money, they went to a clinic and I gave her this money." This isn't $10,000, it's the local currency.
be in|So it's a very small amount of money, in fact.
be in|What we see again though is that the specific way that you spend on other people isn't nearly as important as the fact that you spend on other people in order to make yourself happy, which is really quite important.
be on|What we see again though is that the specific way that you spend on other people isn't nearly as important as the fact that you spend on other people in order to make yourself happy, which is really quite important.
be on to|What we see again though is that the specific way that you spend on other people isn't nearly as important as the fact that you spend on other people in order to make yourself happy, which is really quite important.
see in|What we see again though is that the specific way that you spend on other people isn't nearly as important as the fact that you spend on other people in order to make yourself happy, which is really quite important.
see to|What we see again though is that the specific way that you spend on other people isn't nearly as important as the fact that you spend on other people in order to make yourself happy, which is really quite important.
do with|So you don't have to do amazing things with your money to make yourself happy.
go at|We also wanted to go even broader and look at every country in the world if we could to see what the relationship is between money and happiness.
go in|We also wanted to go even broader and look at every country in the world if we could to see what the relationship is between money and happiness.
go to|We also wanted to go even broader and look at every country in the world if we could to see what the relationship is between money and happiness.
look in|We also wanted to go even broader and look at every country in the world if we could to see what the relationship is between money and happiness.
look to|We also wanted to go even broader and look at every country in the world if we could to see what the relationship is between money and happiness.
want in|We also wanted to go even broader and look at every country in the world if we could to see what the relationship is between money and happiness.
ask in|They ask people, "Did you donate money to charity recently?" and they ask them, "How happy are you with your life in general?" And we can see what the relationship is between those two things.
be in|They ask people, "Did you donate money to charity recently?" and they ask them, "How happy are you with your life in general?" And we can see what the relationship is between those two things.
do in|They ask people, "Did you donate money to charity recently?" and they ask them, "How happy are you with your life in general?" And we can see what the relationship is between those two things.
do with|They ask people, "Did you donate money to charity recently?" and they ask them, "How happy are you with your life in general?" And we can see what the relationship is between those two things.
be in|I know you're all looking at that red country in the middle.
look in|I know you're all looking at that red country in the middle.
be in|I would be a jerk and not tell you what it is, but in fact, it's Central African Republic.
be there for|Maybe it's different there for some reason or another.
look for|So almost everywhere we look we see that giving money away makes you happier than keeping it for yourself.
make for|So almost everywhere we look we see that giving money away makes you happier than keeping it for yourself.
make it|So almost everywhere we look we see that giving money away makes you happier than keeping it for yourself.
be in|So these are sales teams in Belgium.
get to|They work in teams; they go out and sell to doctors and try to get them to buy drugs.
go out to|They work in teams; they go out and sell to doctors and try to get them to buy drugs.
go to|They work in teams; they go out and sell to doctors and try to get them to buy drugs.
work out|They work in teams; they go out and sell to doctors and try to get them to buy drugs.
do in|Some teams, we give people on the team some money for themselves and say, "Spend it however you want on yourself," just like we did with the undergrads in Canada.
do with|Some teams, we give people on the team some money for themselves and say, "Spend it however you want on yourself," just like we did with the undergrads in Canada.
give in|Some teams, we give people on the team some money for themselves and say, "Spend it however you want on yourself," just like we did with the undergrads in Canada.
want in|Some teams, we give people on the team some money for themselves and say, "Spend it however you want on yourself," just like we did with the undergrads in Canada.
give it to|Buy them something as a gift or a present and give it to them.
get on|And then we can see, well now we've got teams that spend on themselves and we've got these prosocial teams who we give money to make the team a little bit better.
get on to|And then we can see, well now we've got teams that spend on themselves and we've got these prosocial teams who we give money to make the team a little bit better.
get to|And then we can see, well now we've got teams that spend on themselves and we've got these prosocial teams who we give money to make the team a little bit better.
have on|And then we can see, well now we've got teams that spend on themselves and we've got these prosocial teams who we give money to make the team a little bit better.
see to|And then we can see, well now we've got teams that spend on themselves and we've got these prosocial teams who we give money to make the team a little bit better.
be out|The reason I have a ridiculous pinata there is one of the teams pooled their money and bought a pinata, and they all got around and smashed the pinata and all the candy fell out and things like that.
buy out|The reason I have a ridiculous pinata there is one of the teams pooled their money and bought a pinata, and they all got around and smashed the pinata and all the candy fell out and things like that.
get out|The reason I have a ridiculous pinata there is one of the teams pooled their money and bought a pinata, and they all got around and smashed the pinata and all the candy fell out and things like that.
have around|The reason I have a ridiculous pinata there is one of the teams pooled their money and bought a pinata, and they all got around and smashed the pinata and all the candy fell out and things like that.
reason out|The reason I have a ridiculous pinata there is one of the teams pooled their money and bought a pinata, and they all got around and smashed the pinata and all the candy fell out and things like that.
do in|A very silly, trivial thing to do, but think of the difference on a team that didn't do that at all, that got 15 euro, put it in their pocket, maybe bought themselves a coffee, or teams that had this prosocial experience where they all bonded together to buy something and do a group activity.
get in|A very silly, trivial thing to do, but think of the difference on a team that didn't do that at all, that got 15 euro, put it in their pocket, maybe bought themselves a coffee, or teams that had this prosocial experience where they all bonded together to buy something and do a group activity.
get it|A very silly, trivial thing to do, but think of the difference on a team that didn't do that at all, that got 15 euro, put it in their pocket, maybe bought themselves a coffee, or teams that had this prosocial experience where they all bonded together to buy something and do a group activity.
get it together|A very silly, trivial thing to do, but think of the difference on a team that didn't do that at all, that got 15 euro, put it in their pocket, maybe bought themselves a coffee, or teams that had this prosocial experience where they all bonded together to buy something and do a group activity.
get to|A very silly, trivial thing to do, but think of the difference on a team that didn't do that at all, that got 15 euro, put it in their pocket, maybe bought themselves a coffee, or teams that had this prosocial experience where they all bonded together to buy something and do a group activity.
get together|A very silly, trivial thing to do, but think of the difference on a team that didn't do that at all, that got 15 euro, put it in their pocket, maybe bought themselves a coffee, or teams that had this prosocial experience where they all bonded together to buy something and do a group activity.
put in|A very silly, trivial thing to do, but think of the difference on a team that didn't do that at all, that got 15 euro, put it in their pocket, maybe bought themselves a coffee, or teams that had this prosocial experience where they all bonded together to buy something and do a group activity.
be in|What we see is that, in fact, the teams that are prosocial sell more stuff than the teams that only got money for themselves.
be in for|What we see is that, in fact, the teams that are prosocial sell more stuff than the teams that only got money for themselves.
see in|What we see is that, in fact, the teams that are prosocial sell more stuff than the teams that only got money for themselves.
be in|And one way to think about it is for every 15 euro you give people for themselves, they put it in their pocket, they don't do anything different than they did before.
give in|And one way to think about it is for every 15 euro you give people for themselves, they put it in their pocket, they don't do anything different than they did before.
put in|And one way to think about it is for every 15 euro you give people for themselves, they put it in their pocket, they don't do anything different than they did before.
get on|But when you give them 15 euro to spend on their teammates, they do so much better on their teams that you actually get a huge win on investing this kind of money.
give of|But when you give them 15 euro to spend on their teammates, they do so much better on their teams that you actually get a huge win on investing this kind of money.
be there for|And I realize that you're probably thinking to yourselves, this is all fine, but there's a context that's incredibly important for public policy and I can't imagine it would work there.
get it|This was a huge criticism that we got to say, if you can't show it with dodgeball teams, this is all stupid.
get to|This was a huge criticism that we got to say, if you can't show it with dodgeball teams, this is all stupid.
give by|The teams that we give the money to spend on each other, they become different teams and, in fact, they dominate the league by the time they're done.
give in|The teams that we give the money to spend on each other, they become different teams and, in fact, they dominate the league by the time they're done.
have on|Across all of these different contexts -- your personal life, you work life, even silly things like intramural sports -- we see spending on other people has a bigger return for you than spending on yourself.
work on|Across all of these different contexts -- your personal life, you work life, even silly things like intramural sports -- we see spending on other people has a bigger return for you than spending on yourself.
be in|It's in fact, that you should stop thinking about which product to buy for yourself and try giving some of it to other people instead.
be in for|It's in fact, that you should stop thinking about which product to buy for yourself and try giving some of it to other people instead.
give it to|It's in fact, that you should stop thinking about which product to buy for yourself and try giving some of it to other people instead.
give of|It's in fact, that you should stop thinking about which product to buy for yourself and try giving some of it to other people instead.
be in|DonorsChoose.org is a non-profit for mainly public school teachers in low-income schools.
do for|They post projects, so they say, "I want to teach Huckleberry Finn to my class and we don't have the books," or "I want a microscope to teach my students science and we don't have a microscope." You and I can go on and buy it for them.
go for|They post projects, so they say, "I want to teach Huckleberry Finn to my class and we don't have the books," or "I want a microscope to teach my students science and we don't have a microscope." You and I can go on and buy it for them.
go it|They post projects, so they say, "I want to teach Huckleberry Finn to my class and we don't have the books," or "I want a microscope to teach my students science and we don't have a microscope." You and I can go on and buy it for them.
have on|They post projects, so they say, "I want to teach Huckleberry Finn to my class and we don't have the books," or "I want a microscope to teach my students science and we don't have a microscope." You and I can go on and buy it for them.
get to|Go to the website and start yourself on the process of thinking, again, less about "How can I spend money on myself?" and more about "If I've got five dollars or 15 dollars, what can I do to benefit other people?" Because ultimately when you do that, you'll find that you'll benefit yourself much more.
go about|Go to the website and start yourself on the process of thinking, again, less about "How can I spend money on myself?" and more about "If I've got five dollars or 15 dollars, what can I do to benefit other people?" Because ultimately when you do that, you'll find that you'll benefit yourself much more.
go on|Go to the website and start yourself on the process of thinking, again, less about "How can I spend money on myself?" and more about "If I've got five dollars or 15 dollars, what can I do to benefit other people?" Because ultimately when you do that, you'll find that you'll benefit yourself much more.
go on about|Go to the website and start yourself on the process of thinking, again, less about "How can I spend money on myself?" and more about "If I've got five dollars or 15 dollars, what can I do to benefit other people?" Because ultimately when you do that, you'll find that you'll benefit yourself much more.
go on to|Go to the website and start yourself on the process of thinking, again, less about "How can I spend money on myself?" and more about "If I've got five dollars or 15 dollars, what can I do to benefit other people?" Because ultimately when you do that, you'll find that you'll benefit yourself much more.
go to|Go to the website and start yourself on the process of thinking, again, less about "How can I spend money on myself?" and more about "If I've got five dollars or 15 dollars, what can I do to benefit other people?" Because ultimately when you do that, you'll find that you'll benefit yourself much more.
start on|Go to the website and start yourself on the process of thinking, again, less about "How can I spend money on myself?" and more about "If I've got five dollars or 15 dollars, what can I do to benefit other people?" Because ultimately when you do that, you'll find that you'll benefit yourself much more.
think about|Go to the website and start yourself on the process of thinking, again, less about "How can I spend money on myself?" and more about "If I've got five dollars or 15 dollars, what can I do to benefit other people?" Because ultimately when you do that, you'll find that you'll benefit yourself much more.
go about|And today, after briefly describing what they found, I'm going to tell you about a highly controversial framework for explaining their discovery, namely the possibility that way beyond the Earth, the Milky Way and other distant galaxies, we may find that our universe is not the only universe, but is instead part of a vast complex of universes that we call the multiverse.
go for|And today, after briefly describing what they found, I'm going to tell you about a highly controversial framework for explaining their discovery, namely the possibility that way beyond the Earth, the Milky Way and other distant galaxies, we may find that our universe is not the only universe, but is instead part of a vast complex of universes that we call the multiverse.
hear of|And I say most of us with forethought, as my four-year-old daughter has heard me speak of these ideas since she was born.
be in|And last year I was holding her and I said, "Sophia, I love you more than anything in the universe." And she turned to me and said, "Daddy, universe or multiverse?" But barring such an anomalous upbringing, it is strange to imagine other realms separate from ours, most with fundamentally different features, that would rightly be called universes of their own.
hold with|And last year I was holding her and I said, "Sophia, I love you more than anything in the universe." And she turned to me and said, "Daddy, universe or multiverse?" But barring such an anomalous upbringing, it is strange to imagine other realms separate from ours, most with fundamentally different features, that would rightly be called universes of their own.
turn to|And last year I was holding her and I said, "Sophia, I love you more than anything in the universe." And she turned to me and said, "Daddy, universe or multiverse?" But barring such an anomalous upbringing, it is strange to imagine other realms separate from ours, most with fundamentally different features, that would rightly be called universes of their own.
be there for|And yet, speculative though the idea surely is, I aim to convince you that there's reason for taking it seriously, as it just might be right.
take it|And yet, speculative though the idea surely is, I aim to convince you that there's reason for taking it seriously, as it just might be right.
go in|I'm going to tell the story of the multiverse in three parts.
be on|It's based on an approach called string theory, and that's where the idea of the multiverse will come into the story.
go together|Finally, in part three, I'm going to describe a cosmological theory called inflation, which will pull all the pieces of the story together.
piece together|Finally, in part three, I'm going to describe a cosmological theory called inflation, which will pull all the pieces of the story together.
back away|Okay, part one starts back in 1929 when the great astronomer Edwin Hubble realized that the distant galaxies were all rushing away from us, establishing that space itself is stretching, it's expanding.
back in|Okay, part one starts back in 1929 when the great astronomer Edwin Hubble realized that the distant galaxies were all rushing away from us, establishing that space itself is stretching, it's expanding.
be away|Okay, part one starts back in 1929 when the great astronomer Edwin Hubble realized that the distant galaxies were all rushing away from us, establishing that space itself is stretching, it's expanding.
be on|The prevailing wisdom was that on the largest of scales the universe was static.
be down|But even so, there was one thing that everyone was certain of: The expansion must be slowing down.
pull on|That, much as the gravitational pull of the Earth slows the ascent of an apple tossed upward, the gravitational pull of each galaxy on every other must be slowing the expansion of space.
change over|And they did this by painstaking observations of numerous distant galaxies, allowing them to chart how the expansion rate has changed over time.
do over|And they did this by painstaking observations of numerous distant galaxies, allowing them to chart how the expansion rate has changed over time.
have over|And they did this by painstaking observations of numerous distant galaxies, allowing them to chart how the expansion rate has changed over time.
be down|Here's the surprise: They found that the expansion is not slowing down.
be up|Instead they found that it's speeding up, going faster and faster.
be up|That's like tossing an apple upward and it goes up faster and faster.
toss up|That's like tossing an apple upward and it goes up faster and faster.
see to|Now if you saw an apple do that, you'd want to know why.
be on|What's pushing on it?
be away|What force is driving all galaxies to rush away from every other at an ever-quickening speed?
drive at|What force is driving all galaxies to rush away from every other at an ever-quickening speed?
drive away|What force is driving all galaxies to rush away from every other at an ever-quickening speed?
come of|Well the most promising answer comes from an old idea of Einstein's.
see to|You see, we are all used to gravity being a force that does one thing, pulls objects together.
call up|Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
drive up|Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
have against|Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
have up|Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
make it|Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
make to|Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
make up|Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
see to|Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
be up|When the astronomers worked out how much of this dark energy must be infusing space to account for the cosmic speed up, look at what they found.
work at|When the astronomers worked out how much of this dark energy must be infusing space to account for the cosmic speed up, look at what they found.
make it|Some details provide windows into uncharted realms of reality, and this peculiar number may be doing just that, as the only approach that's so far made headway to explain it invokes the possibility of other universes -- an idea that naturally emerges from string theory, which takes me to part two: string theory.
make of|Some details provide windows into uncharted realms of reality, and this peculiar number may be doing just that, as the only approach that's so far made headway to explain it invokes the possibility of other universes -- an idea that naturally emerges from string theory, which takes me to part two: string theory.
make to|Some details provide windows into uncharted realms of reality, and this peculiar number may be doing just that, as the only approach that's so far made headway to explain it invokes the possibility of other universes -- an idea that naturally emerges from string theory, which takes me to part two: string theory.
take to|Some details provide windows into uncharted realms of reality, and this peculiar number may be doing just that, as the only approach that's so far made headway to explain it invokes the possibility of other universes -- an idea that naturally emerges from string theory, which takes me to part two: string theory.
back on to|So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.
go about|So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.
go on about|So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.
go to|So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.
hold back|So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.
hold on|So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.
hold on to|So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.
be in|Well it's an approach to realize Einstein's dream of a unified theory of physics, a single overarching framework that would be able to describe all the forces at work in the universe.
dream of|Well it's an approach to realize Einstein's dream of a unified theory of physics, a single overarching framework that would be able to describe all the forces at work in the universe.
be in|It's a compelling picture, a kind of cosmic symphony, where all the richness that we see in the world around us emerges from the music that these little, tiny strings can play.
see in|It's a compelling picture, a kind of cosmic symphony, where all the richness that we see in the world around us emerges from the music that these little, tiny strings can play.
allow of|It has internal inconsistencies, unless we allow for something wholly unfamiliar -- extra dimensions of space.
be on|But even though the dimensions are hidden, they would have an impact on things that we can observe because the shape of the extra dimensions constrains how the strings can vibrate.
have on|But even though the dimensions are hidden, they would have an impact on things that we can observe because the shape of the extra dimensions constrains how the strings can vibrate.
grow to|From five, the number grew into the hundreds and then the thousands -- A large, but still manageable, collection to analyze, since after all, graduate students need something to do.
take to|But others turned this issue on its head, taking us to the possibility of a multiverse.
turn on|But others turned this issue on its head, taking us to the possibility of a multiverse.
turn to|But others turned this issue on its head, taking us to the possibility of a multiverse.
be on|Maybe each of these shapes is on an equal footing with every other.
be in|Each is as real as every other, in the sense that there are many universes, each with a different shape, for the extra dimensions.
be in for|Each is as real as every other, in the sense that there are many universes, each with a different shape, for the extra dimensions.
be there for|Each is as real as every other, in the sense that there are many universes, each with a different shape, for the extra dimensions.
have on|And this radical proposal has a profound impact on this mystery: the amount of dark energy revealed by the Nobel Prize-winning results.
be in|Because you see, if there are other universes, and if those universes each have, say, a different shape for the extra dimensions, then the physical features of each universe will be different, and in particular, the amount of dark energy in each universe will be different.
have in|Because you see, if there are other universes, and if those universes each have, say, a different shape for the extra dimensions, then the physical features of each universe will be different, and in particular, the amount of dark energy in each universe will be different.
see in|Because you see, if there are other universes, and if those universes each have, say, a different shape for the extra dimensions, then the physical features of each universe will be different, and in particular, the amount of dark energy in each universe will be different.
have on|Which means that the mystery of explaining the amount of dark energy we've now measured would take on a wholly different character.
ask in|It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there?
ask out|It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there?
be in|It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there?
be out|It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there?
do in|It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there?
do out|It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there?
do with|It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there?
find out|It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there?
measure out|It's that the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves in a universe with a particular amount of dark energy we've measured instead of any of the other possibilities that are out there?
be on|And that's a question on which we can make headway.
have on|And in those universes that have much less dark energy, well they collapse back on themselves so quickly that, again, galaxies don't form.
be in|And without galaxies, there are no stars, no planets and no chance for our form of life to exist in those other universes.
be on|But the point is, if the feature you're observing can and does take on a wide variety of different values across the wider landscape of reality, then thinking one explanation for a particular value is simply misguided.
do for|But the point is, if the feature you're observing can and does take on a wide variety of different values across the wider landscape of reality, then thinking one explanation for a particular value is simply misguided.
take for|But the point is, if the feature you're observing can and does take on a wide variety of different values across the wider landscape of reality, then thinking one explanation for a particular value is simply misguided.
come away|An early example comes from the great astronomer Johannes Kepler who was obsessed with understanding a different number -- why the Sun is 93 million miles away from the Earth.
come from|An early example comes from the great astronomer Johannes Kepler who was obsessed with understanding a different number -- why the Sun is 93 million miles away from the Earth.
be on|Instead the right question to ask is, why do we humans find ourselves on a planet at this particular distance, instead of any of the other possibilities?
yield to|So we find ourselves on a planet at this particular distance simply because it yields conditions vital to our form of life.
come of|And when it comes to planets and their distances, this clearly is the right kind of reasoning.
come of|The point is, when it comes to universes and the dark energy that they contain, it may also be the right kind of reasoning.
be on|One key difference, of course, is we know that there are other planets out there, but so far I've only speculated on the possibility that there might be other universes.
be out|One key difference, of course, is we know that there are other planets out there, but so far I've only speculated on the possibility that there might be other universes.
have on|One key difference, of course, is we know that there are other planets out there, but so far I've only speculated on the possibility that there might be other universes.
key on|One key difference, of course, is we know that there are other planets out there, but so far I've only speculated on the possibility that there might be other universes.
take to|And that takes me to my final part, part three.
bang out|The Big Bang leaves out something pretty important, the Bang.
give into|It tells us how the universe evolved after the Bang, but gives us no insight into what would have powered the Bang itself.
be in|The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
be on|The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
be on to|The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
be up|The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
be up to|The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
call for|The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
call in|The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
call up|The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
fuel up|The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
become of|Instead the fuel not only generated our Big Bang, but it would also generate countless other Big Bangs, each giving rise to its own separate universe with our universe becoming but one bubble in a grand cosmic bubble bath of universes.
give in|Instead the fuel not only generated our Big Bang, but it would also generate countless other Big Bangs, each giving rise to its own separate universe with our universe becoming but one bubble in a grand cosmic bubble bath of universes.
give of|Instead the fuel not only generated our Big Bang, but it would also generate countless other Big Bangs, each giving rise to its own separate universe with our universe becoming but one bubble in a grand cosmic bubble bath of universes.
be in|And we find ourselves in one universe instead of another simply because it's only in our universe that the physical features, like the amount of dark energy, are right for our form of life to take hold.
be in for|And we find ourselves in one universe instead of another simply because it's only in our universe that the physical features, like the amount of dark energy, are right for our form of life to take hold.
bang out|Because the theory predicts that the Big Bang would have been so intense that as space rapidly expanded, tiny quantum jitters from the micro world would have been stretched out to the macro world, yielding a distinctive fingerprint, a pattern of slightly hotter spots and slightly colder spots, across space, which powerful telescopes have now observed.
be out|Because the theory predicts that the Big Bang would have been so intense that as space rapidly expanded, tiny quantum jitters from the micro world would have been stretched out to the macro world, yielding a distinctive fingerprint, a pattern of slightly hotter spots and slightly colder spots, across space, which powerful telescopes have now observed.
be out of|Because the theory predicts that the Big Bang would have been so intense that as space rapidly expanded, tiny quantum jitters from the micro world would have been stretched out to the macro world, yielding a distinctive fingerprint, a pattern of slightly hotter spots and slightly colder spots, across space, which powerful telescopes have now observed.
be out to|Because the theory predicts that the Big Bang would have been so intense that as space rapidly expanded, tiny quantum jitters from the micro world would have been stretched out to the macro world, yielding a distinctive fingerprint, a pattern of slightly hotter spots and slightly colder spots, across space, which powerful telescopes have now observed.
space out|Because the theory predicts that the Big Bang would have been so intense that as space rapidly expanded, tiny quantum jitters from the micro world would have been stretched out to the macro world, yielding a distinctive fingerprint, a pattern of slightly hotter spots and slightly colder spots, across space, which powerful telescopes have now observed.
get across|And if our universe got hit by another, that collision would generate an additional subtle pattern of temperature variations across space that we might one day be able to detect.
get across to|And if our universe got hit by another, that collision would generate an additional subtle pattern of temperature variations across space that we might one day be able to detect.
get by|And if our universe got hit by another, that collision would generate an additional subtle pattern of temperature variations across space that we might one day be able to detect.
get to|And if our universe got hit by another, that collision would generate an additional subtle pattern of temperature variations across space that we might one day be able to detect.
be in|And so exotic as this picture is, it may one day be grounded in observations, establishing the existence of other universes.
be up|You see, we learned that our universe is not static, that space is expanding, that that expansion is speeding up and that there might be other universes all by carefully examining faint pinpoints of starlight coming to us from distant galaxies.
be up to|You see, we learned that our universe is not static, that space is expanding, that that expansion is speeding up and that there might be other universes all by carefully examining faint pinpoints of starlight coming to us from distant galaxies.
come to|You see, we learned that our universe is not static, that space is expanding, that that expansion is speeding up and that there might be other universes all by carefully examining faint pinpoints of starlight coming to us from distant galaxies.
see to|You see, we learned that our universe is not static, that space is expanding, that that expansion is speeding up and that there might be other universes all by carefully examining faint pinpoints of starlight coming to us from distant galaxies.
be away|But because the expansion is speeding up, in the very far future, those galaxies will rush away so far and so fast that we won't be able to see them -- not because of technological limitations, but because of the laws of physics.
be in|But because the expansion is speeding up, in the very far future, those galaxies will rush away so far and so fast that we won't be able to see them -- not because of technological limitations, but because of the laws of physics.
be up|But because the expansion is speeding up, in the very far future, those galaxies will rush away so far and so fast that we won't be able to see them -- not because of technological limitations, but because of the laws of physics.
be up to|But because the expansion is speeding up, in the very far future, those galaxies will rush away so far and so fast that we won't be able to see them -- not because of technological limitations, but because of the laws of physics.
look into|So astronomers in the far future looking out into deep space will see nothing but an endless stretch of static, inky, black stillness.
be in|Because today's astronomers, by turning powerful telescopes to the sky, have captured a handful of starkly informative photons -- a kind of cosmic telegram billions of years in transit.
have in|Because today's astronomers, by turning powerful telescopes to the sky, have captured a handful of starkly informative photons -- a kind of cosmic telegram billions of years in transit.
turn in|Because today's astronomers, by turning powerful telescopes to the sky, have captured a handful of starkly informative photons -- a kind of cosmic telegram billions of years in transit.
turn to|Because today's astronomers, by turning powerful telescopes to the sky, have captured a handful of starkly informative photons -- a kind of cosmic telegram billions of years in transit.
be in|How do you think of where cosmology is now, in a sort of historical side?
do in|How do you think of where cosmology is now, in a sort of historical side?
be in|Are we in the middle of something unusual historically in your opinion?
be in|When we learn that astronomers of the far future may not have enough information to figure things out, the natural question is, maybe we're already in that position and certain deep, critical features of the universe already have escaped our ability to understand because of how cosmology evolves.
have in|When we learn that astronomers of the far future may not have enough information to figure things out, the natural question is, maybe we're already in that position and certain deep, critical features of the universe already have escaped our ability to understand because of how cosmology evolves.
be down|We can understand how to understand the data from the microwave background radiation that was set down 13.72 billion years ago -- and yet, we can do calculations today to predict how it will look and it matches.
set to|We can understand how to understand the data from the microwave background radiation that was set down 13.72 billion years ago -- and yet, we can do calculations today to predict how it will look and it matches.
be in|So on the one hand, it's just incredible where we've gotten, but who knows what sort of blocks we may find in the future.
block in|So on the one hand, it's just incredible where we've gotten, but who knows what sort of blocks we may find in the future.
get in|So on the one hand, it's just incredible where we've gotten, but who knows what sort of blocks we may find in the future.
hand in|So on the one hand, it's just incredible where we've gotten, but who knows what sort of blocks we may find in the future.
have in|So on the one hand, it's just incredible where we've gotten, but who knows what sort of blocks we may find in the future.
go around|CA: You're going to be around for the next few days.
go for|CA: You're going to be around for the next few days.
look to|And from these extracts, we can reconstruct the human genome at different points in time and look for changes that might be related to adaptations, risk factors and inherited diseases.
be in|The most important health challenges today are not caused by simple mutations in our genome, but rather result from a complex and dynamic interplay between genetic variation, diet, microbes and parasites and our immune response.
have in|All of these diseases have a strong evolutionary component that directly relates to the fact that we live today in a very different environment than the ones in which our bodies evolved.
move in|And in order to understand these diseases, we need to move past studies of the human genome alone and towards a more holistic approach to human health in the past.
be in|Mummies are a great source of information, except that they're really geographically limited and limited in time as well.
put in|So to address this problem, I put together a team of international researchers in Switzerland, Denmark and the U.K.
be on|to study a very poorly studied, little known material that's found on people everywhere.
be in|It's what the dentist cleans off your teeth every time that you go in for a visit.
be in for|It's what the dentist cleans off your teeth every time that you go in for a visit.
be off|It's what the dentist cleans off your teeth every time that you go in for a visit.
go for|It's what the dentist cleans off your teeth every time that you go in for a visit.
brush up|But in ancient times before tooth brushing, up to 600 milligrams might have built up on the teeth over a lifetime.
have on|But in ancient times before tooth brushing, up to 600 milligrams might have built up on the teeth over a lifetime.
have over|But in ancient times before tooth brushing, up to 600 milligrams might have built up on the teeth over a lifetime.
have up|But in ancient times before tooth brushing, up to 600 milligrams might have built up on the teeth over a lifetime.
be in|And what's really important about dental calculus is that it fossilizes just like the rest of the skeleton, it's abundant in quantity before the present day and it's ubiquitous worldwide.
have on|And so previous studies had only focused on microscopy.
be after|And so what my team of researchers, what we wanted to do, is say, can we apply genetic and proteomic technology to go after DNA and proteins, and from this can we get better taxonomic resolution to really understand what's going on?
be on|And so what my team of researchers, what we wanted to do, is say, can we apply genetic and proteomic technology to go after DNA and proteins, and from this can we get better taxonomic resolution to really understand what's going on?
get on|And so what my team of researchers, what we wanted to do, is say, can we apply genetic and proteomic technology to go after DNA and proteins, and from this can we get better taxonomic resolution to really understand what's going on?
get to|And so what my team of researchers, what we wanted to do, is say, can we apply genetic and proteomic technology to go after DNA and proteins, and from this can we get better taxonomic resolution to really understand what's going on?
go on|And so what my team of researchers, what we wanted to do, is say, can we apply genetic and proteomic technology to go after DNA and proteins, and from this can we get better taxonomic resolution to really understand what's going on?
go to|And so what my team of researchers, what we wanted to do, is say, can we apply genetic and proteomic technology to go after DNA and proteins, and from this can we get better taxonomic resolution to really understand what's going on?
be down|So what started out as an idea, is now being implemented to churn out millions of sequences that we can use to investigate the long-term evolutionary history of human health and disease, right down to the genetic code of individual pathogens.
be out|So what started out as an idea, is now being implemented to churn out millions of sequences that we can use to investigate the long-term evolutionary history of human health and disease, right down to the genetic code of individual pathogens.
be out of|So what started out as an idea, is now being implemented to churn out millions of sequences that we can use to investigate the long-term evolutionary history of human health and disease, right down to the genetic code of individual pathogens.
be out to|So what started out as an idea, is now being implemented to churn out millions of sequences that we can use to investigate the long-term evolutionary history of human health and disease, right down to the genetic code of individual pathogens.
start out to|So what started out as an idea, is now being implemented to churn out millions of sequences that we can use to investigate the long-term evolutionary history of human health and disease, right down to the genetic code of individual pathogens.
come of|Sometimes I'm concerned that we hear about it so much that we've come to accept longer lives with a kind of a complacency, even ease.
hear of|Sometimes I'm concerned that we hear about it so much that we've come to accept longer lives with a kind of a complacency, even ease.
live with|Sometimes I'm concerned that we hear about it so much that we've come to accept longer lives with a kind of a complacency, even ease.
make of|But make no mistake, longer lives can and, I believe, will improve quality of life at all ages.
let out|Now to put this in perspective, let me just zoom out for a minute.
put in|Now to put this in perspective, let me just zoom out for a minute.
put in for|Now to put this in perspective, let me just zoom out for a minute.
put out|Now to put this in perspective, let me just zoom out for a minute.
be in|More years were added to average life expectancy in the 20th century than all years added across all prior millennia of human evolution combined.
be in|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
be up|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
be up to|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
fall in|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
fall in with|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
fall into|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
go at|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
go in|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
go in with|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
go into|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
go it|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
go to|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
go up to|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
go with|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
have in|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
make into|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
make to|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
get it|And now, if you're the kind of person who can get chills from population statistics, these are the ones that should do it.
be in|Because what that means is that for the first time in the history of the species, the majority of babies born in the Developed World are having the opportunity to grow old.
be in|This increase in life expectancy is the remarkable product of culture -- the crucible that holds science and technology and wide-scale changes in behavior that improve health and well-being.
be on|It's hardly time to rest on our laurels.
ask in|The CDC recently conducted a survey where they asked respondents simply to tell them whether they experienced significant psychological distress in the previous week.
be on|We've asked, well maybe older people are just trying to put a positive spin on an otherwise depressing existence.
have on|We've asked, well maybe older people are just trying to put a positive spin on an otherwise depressing existence.
put on|We've asked, well maybe older people are just trying to put a positive spin on an otherwise depressing existence.
try on|We've asked, well maybe older people are just trying to put a positive spin on an otherwise depressing existence.
be in|-- so that we could get a sense of the kinds of emotions and feelings they were having in their day-to-day lives.
get in|-- so that we could get a sense of the kinds of emotions and feelings they were having in their day-to-day lives.
have in|-- so that we could get a sense of the kinds of emotions and feelings they were having in their day-to-day lives.
do over|And using this intense study of individuals, we find that it's not one particular generation that's doing better than the others, but the same individuals over time come to report relatively greater positive experience.
