open up|But just as the Internet has opened up the world for each and every one of us, it has also opened up each and every one of us to the world.
pay for|And increasingly, the price we're being asked to pay for all of this connectedness is our privacy.
ask for|In fact, when I know the data that's being shared and I'm asked explicitly for my consent, I want some sites to understand my habits.
follow through|In fact, there's an entire industry formed around following us through the digital woods and compiling a profile on each of us.
go to|I then go to a news site, look for some headlines.
look for|I then go to a news site, look for some headlines.
look at|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
look up|Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, "Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?" And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old, looked at me and said quizzically, "What's literacy?" So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.
go to|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
look at|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
wind down|I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile.
freak out|I look at this picture and it freaks me out.
look at|I look at this picture and it freaks me out.
freak out|I move from this, from freaked out to enraged.
sit by|I can tell you, there isn't a person in this room that would sit idly by.
sit by|We can't sit idly by here either.
get on|Privacy is not an option, and it shouldn't be the price we accept for just getting on the Internet.
follow through|You can download it, install it in Firefox, to see who is tracking you across the Web and following you through the digital woods.
go forward|Going forward, all of our voices need to be heard.
look forward|A large chunk of our work has been put into transforming this neglected industrial ruin into a viable post-industrial space that looks forward and backward at the same time.
go into|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
grow out|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
grow out of|And another huge chunk of our work has gone into making relevant a site that's grown out of sync with its time.
take over|When Richard Koshalek took over as director of the Hirshhorn in 2009, he was determined to take advantage of the fact that this museum was sited at the most unique place: at the seat of power in the U.S.
think about|So the Hirshhorn, as we began to think about it, and as we evolved the mission, with Richard and his team -- it's really his life blood.
lift up|One redeeming feature is it's lifted up off the ground and it's got this void, and it's got an empty core kind of in the spirit and that facade very much corporate and federal style.
show in|Very, very difficult to mount shows in there.
go in|It can't go in the Mall.
go in|It can't go in the courtyard.
take up|It's already taken up by landscape and by sculptures.
make of|Most are neoclassical, heavy and opaque, made of stone or concrete.
make of|It's made of silcon-coated glass fiber.
leave behind|We couldn't leave any traces behind.
come to|So it comes to the site twice a year.
take off|It's taken off the delivery truck.
go to|And I'm just going to zip through these slides.
think about|So I want to talk today about money and happiness, which are two things that a lot of us spend a lot of our time thinking about, either trying to earn them or trying to increase them.
think about|And before I tell you the ways that you can spend it that will make you happier, let's think about the ways we usually spend it that don't, in fact, make us happier.
go to|It turns out people think when they win the lottery their lives are going to be amazing.
turn out|It turns out people think when they win the lottery their lives are going to be amazing.
go into|So what happens when people win the lottery is, number one, they spend all the money and go into debt, and number two, all of their friends and everyone they've ever met find them and bug them for money.
lead to|And instead of talking about how it had made them realize that money doesn't lead to happiness, everyone instantly started saying, "You know what I would do if I won the lottery ...
think about|And here's just two of the ones we saw that are just really interesting to think about.
go to|One person wrote in, "When I win, I'm going to buy my own little mountain and have a little house on top." And another person wrote, "I would fill a big bathtub with money and get in the tub while smoking a big fat cigar and sipping a glass of champagne." This is even worse now: "Then I'd have a picture taken and dozens of glossies made.
give away|So let's have some people do what they usually do and spend money on themselves, and let's make some people give money away, and measure their happiness and see if, in fact, they get happier.
go out|On one Vancouver morning, we went out on the campus at University of British Columbia and we approached people and said, "Do you want to be in an experiment?" They said, "Yes." We asked them how happy they were, and then we gave them an envelope.
go about|We let them go about their day.
find out|We found out that they did in fact spend it in the way that we asked them to.
call up|We called them up at night and asked them, "What'd you spend it on, and how happy do you feel now?" What did they spend it on?
run over|So if you give undergraduates five dollars, it looks like coffee to them and they run over to Starbucks and spend it as fast as they can.
call back|What did we find when we called them back at the end of the day?
go out|He said, "I called a girl I wished to love." They basically went out on a date, and he says at the end that he didn't "achieve" her up till now.
take out|"I took my girlfriend out for dinner.
go back|We went to a movie, we left early, and then went back to her room for ...
look at|So look at these two.
look at|We also wanted to go even broader and look at every country in the world if we could to see what the relationship is between money and happiness.
look at|I know you're all looking at that red country in the middle.
make up|You can make up stories.
give away|So almost everywhere we look we see that giving money away makes you happier than keeping it for yourself.
go out|They work in teams; they go out and sell to doctors and try to get them to buy drugs.
fall out|The reason I have a ridiculous pinata there is one of the teams pooled their money and bought a pinata, and they all got around and smashed the pinata and all the candy fell out and things like that.
get around|The reason I have a ridiculous pinata there is one of the teams pooled their money and bought a pinata, and they all got around and smashed the pinata and all the candy fell out and things like that.
think about|And one way to think about it is for every 15 euro you give people for themselves, they put it in their pocket, they don't do anything different than they did before.
think about|And I know what you're all thinking about are dodgeball teams.
go out|So we went out and found these dodgeball teams and infiltrated them.
think about|It's in fact, that you should stop thinking about which product to buy for yourself and try giving some of it to other people instead.
go on|They post projects, so they say, "I want to teach Huckleberry Finn to my class and we don't have the books," or "I want a microscope to teach my students science and we don't have a microscope." You and I can go on and buy it for them.
go to|And today, after briefly describing what they found, I'm going to tell you about a highly controversial framework for explaining their discovery, namely the possibility that way beyond the Earth, the Milky Way and other distant galaxies, we may find that our universe is not the only universe, but is instead part of a vast complex of universes that we call the multiverse.
go to|I'm going to tell the story of the multiverse in three parts.
go to|In part one, I'm going to describe those Nobel Prize-winning results and to highlight a profound mystery which those results revealed.
come into|It's based on an approach called string theory, and that's where the idea of the multiverse will come into the story.
go to|Finally, in part three, I'm going to describe a cosmological theory called inflation, which will pull all the pieces of the story together.
pull together|Finally, in part three, I'm going to describe a cosmological theory called inflation, which will pull all the pieces of the story together.
rush away|Okay, part one starts back in 1929 when the great astronomer Edwin Hubble realized that the distant galaxies were all rushing away from us, establishing that space itself is stretching, it's expanding.
slow down|But even so, there was one thing that everyone was certain of: The expansion must be slowing down.
slow down|Here's the surprise: They found that the expansion is not slowing down.
speed up|Instead they found that it's speeding up, going faster and faster.
go up|That's like tossing an apple upward and it goes up faster and faster.
push on|What's pushing on it?
rush away|What force is driving all galaxies to rush away from every other at an ever-quickening speed?
come from|Well the most promising answer comes from an old idea of Einstein's.
pull together|You see, we are all used to gravity being a force that does one thing, pulls objects together.
slow down|Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
speed up|Because the repulsive gravity of an invisible energy in space -- we now call it dark energy, but I've made it smokey white here so you can see it -- its repulsive gravity would cause each galaxy to push against every other, driving expansion to speed up, not slow down.
account for|When the astronomers worked out how much of this dark energy must be infusing space to account for the cosmic speed up, look at what they found.
look at|When the astronomers worked out how much of this dark energy must be infusing space to account for the cosmic speed up, look at what they found.
speed up|When the astronomers worked out how much of this dark energy must be infusing space to account for the cosmic speed up, look at what they found.
work out|When the astronomers worked out how much of this dark energy must be infusing space to account for the cosmic speed up, look at what they found.
go on|So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.
go on to|So hold the mystery of the dark energy in the back of your mind as I now go on to tell you three key things about string theory.
allow for|It has internal inconsistencies, unless we allow for something wholly unfamiliar -- extra dimensions of space.
think about|And you can think about those as height, width and depth.
grow into|From five, the number grew into the hundreds and then the thousands -- A large, but still manageable, collection to analyze, since after all, graduate students need something to do.
grow into|But then the list continued to grow into the millions and the billions, until today.
take on|Which means that the mystery of explaining the amount of dark energy we've now measured would take on a wholly different character.
take on|But the point is, if the feature you're observing can and does take on a wide variety of different values across the wider landscape of reality, then thinking one explanation for a particular value is simply misguided.
be away|An early example comes from the great astronomer Johannes Kepler who was obsessed with understanding a different number -- why the Sun is 93 million miles away from the Earth.
be away|And those planets that are much farther away from the star, well they're so cold that, again, our form of life would not take hold.
come to|And when it comes to planets and their distances, this clearly is the right kind of reasoning.
come to|The point is, when it comes to universes and the dark energy that they contain, it may also be the right kind of reasoning.
pull together|So to pull it all together, we need a mechanism that can actually generate other universes.
leave out|The Big Bang leaves out something pretty important, the Bang.
use up|The fuel is based on something called a quantum field, but the only detail that matters for us is that this fuel proves to be so efficient that it's virtually impossible to use it all up, which means in the inflationary theory, the Big Bang giving rise to our universe is likely not a one-time event.
lead to|And now, when we meld this with string theory, here's the picture we're led to.
take on|The extra dimensions take on a wide variety of different shapes.
lead to|And this is the compelling but highly controversial picture of the wider cosmos that cutting-edge observation and theory have now led us to seriously consider.
stretch out|Because the theory predicts that the Big Bang would have been so intense that as space rapidly expanded, tiny quantum jitters from the micro world would have been stretched out to the macro world, yielding a distinctive fingerprint, a pattern of slightly hotter spots and slightly colder spots, across space, which powerful telescopes have now observed.
come from|You see, we learned that our universe is not static, that space is expanding, that that expansion is speeding up and that there might be other universes all by carefully examining faint pinpoints of starlight coming to us from distant galaxies.
speed up|You see, we learned that our universe is not static, that space is expanding, that that expansion is speeding up and that there might be other universes all by carefully examining faint pinpoints of starlight coming to us from distant galaxies.
rush away|But because the expansion is speeding up, in the very far future, those galaxies will rush away so far and so fast that we won't be able to see them -- not because of technological limitations, but because of the laws of physics.
speed up|But because the expansion is speeding up, in the very far future, those galaxies will rush away so far and so fast that we won't be able to see them -- not because of technological limitations, but because of the laws of physics.
look out|So astronomers in the far future looking out into deep space will see nothing but an endless stretch of static, inky, black stillness.
hand down|Now maybe those future astronomers will have records handed down from an earlier era, like ours, attesting to an expanding cosmos teeming with galaxies.
believe in|Or would they believe in the black, static empty universe that their own state-of-the-art observations reveal?
figure out|When we learn that astronomers of the far future may not have enough information to figure things out, the natural question is, maybe we're already in that position and certain deep, critical features of the universe already have escaped our ability to understand because of how cosmology evolves.
set down|We can understand how to understand the data from the microwave background radiation that was set down 13.72 billion years ago -- and yet, we can do calculations today to predict how it will look and it matches.
go to|CA: You're going to be around for the next few days.
look for|And from these extracts, we can reconstruct the human genome at different points in time and look for changes that might be related to adaptations, risk factors and inherited diseases.
live in|All of these diseases have a strong evolutionary component that directly relates to the fact that we live today in a very different environment than the ones in which our bodies evolved.
move towards|And in order to understand these diseases, we need to move past studies of the human genome alone and towards a more holistic approach to human health in the past.
clean off|It's what the dentist cleans off your teeth every time that you go in for a visit.
go in|It's what the dentist cleans off your teeth every time that you go in for a visit.
go in for|It's what the dentist cleans off your teeth every time that you go in for a visit.
build up|But in ancient times before tooth brushing, up to 600 milligrams might have built up on the teeth over a lifetime.
go back|We find it in every population around the world at all time periods going back tens of thousands of years.
focus on|And so previous studies had only focused on microscopy.
look at|They'd looked at dental calculus under a microscope, and what they had found was things like pollen and plant starches, and they'd found muscle cells from animal meats and bacteria.
go after|And so what my team of researchers, what we wanted to do, is say, can we apply genetic and proteomic technology to go after DNA and proteins, and from this can we get better taxonomic resolution to really understand what's going on?
churn out|So what started out as an idea, is now being implemented to churn out millions of sequences that we can use to investigate the long-term evolutionary history of human health and disease, right down to the genetic code of individual pathogens.
start out|So what started out as an idea, is now being implemented to churn out millions of sequences that we can use to investigate the long-term evolutionary history of human health and disease, right down to the genetic code of individual pathogens.
start out as|So what started out as an idea, is now being implemented to churn out millions of sequences that we can use to investigate the long-term evolutionary history of human health and disease, right down to the genetic code of individual pathogens.
hear about|You hear about it all the time.
hear about|You hear about it on your television sets.
come to|Sometimes I'm concerned that we hear about it so much that we've come to accept longer lives with a kind of a complacency, even ease.
hear about|Sometimes I'm concerned that we hear about it so much that we've come to accept longer lives with a kind of a complacency, even ease.
zoom out|Now to put this in perspective, let me just zoom out for a minute.
go up|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
make it|And because fertility rates fell across that very same period that life expectancy was going up, that pyramid that has always represented the distribution of age in the population, with many young ones at the bottom winnowed to a tiny peak of older people who make it and survive to old age is being reshaped into a rectangle.
live out|Through cultural changes, our ancestors largely eliminated early death so that people can now live out their full lives.
come to|Study after study is coming to the same conclusion.
embark on|Years ago, my colleagues and I embarked on a study where we followed the same group of people over a 10-year period.
come to|And using this intense study of individuals, we find that it's not one particular generation that's doing better than the others, but the same individuals over time come to report relatively greater positive experience.
